I strongly object to ANY program that places foreign persons over US Citizens in the job market competition or the education competition.  There are way too many out of work US Citizens AND Veterans right now.  We need to tighten our immigration and freebies to non-citizens.  Whether those people are legal or illegal does not make a difference while so many US Citizens are out of work and struggling! Do NOT pass any more freebies to non-Citizens programs!I am one who has had to change my employment focus due to Federal Government mandates.  This has to stop!
Optional Practical Training (OPT) is a very bad plan. A Freedom of Information Act request from the Center for Immigration Studies revealed several disturbing facts about the OPT program that DHS proposes to expand. Two of them are:OPT denied American workers more than 430,000 jobs during the years 2009-2013; andOPT removed $4 billion from the Social Security and Medicare trust funds.The proposed regulations are "irresponsible and dangerous considering the Government Accountability Office (GAO) report issued in March 2014 finding that the program was full of inefficiencies, susceptible to fraud, and that the Department was not adequately overseeing it."The report also found a major national security problem in that the Department does not know where tens of thousands of foreign students are living and working in the country. The GAO said that 'ICE cannot fully ensure foreign students working under optional practical training are maintaining their legal status in the United States.'This rule must not go into efffect.Thank you,Mr. and Mrs. Charles R. Hofacker
Optional Practical Training (OPT) is a very bad plan. A Freedom of Information Act request from the Center for Immigration Studies revealed several disturbing facts about the OPT program that DHS proposes to expand. Two of them are:OPT denied American workers more than 430,000 jobs during the years 2009-2013; andOPT removed $4 billion from the Social Security and Medicare trust funds.The proposed regulations are "irresponsible and dangerous considering the Government Accountability Office (GAO) report issued in March 2014 finding that the program was full of inefficiencies, susceptible to fraud, and that the Department was not adequately overseeing it."The report also found a major national security problem in that the Department does not know where tens of thousands of foreign students are living and working in the country. The GAO said that 'ICE cannot fully ensure foreign students working under optional practical training are maintaining their legal status in the United States.'This rule must not go into efffect.Thank you,Mr. and Mrs. Charles R. Hofacker
This rule provides a great chance for foreign students who work hard and also talented to have better opportunity to further practice what they have learnt at the university. While they are doing their OPT, building their own practical professional experience, they have also contributed a lot to the development of US economy. This rule would benefit both the foreign students and also the US society. I myself support it much.
As the trend of the previous years shows,  skilled immigrants have made huge contributions in the innovation and ground breaking research. With this comes more jobs and opportunities. It is my firm belief that immigrants need to be given the time and benefit of the superior technology in America to help build the foundation for  a culturally diverse, fundamentally strong economy that will help everyone  live better lives.  With a 24 month extension on the OPT , the skilled workforce has enough motivation and time to create something that could potentially change the world.
The new rule will help a lot of international students to explore new horizons in life and provide them ample time to get trained and compete in the field of interest they wish to . I strongly welcome this decision and look forward to a better future.
I am against expanding training opportunities for F-1, International students.Jobs should be given to U.S stem workers &amp; American students seeking stem careers.<span style="padding-left: 30px"></span><span style="padding-left: 30px"></span>
I am strongly opposed to the proposed expansion of the optional practical training (OPT) program.  This is another way for companies to hire cheap foreign labor at the expense of American workers. I was directly impacted by programs such as this. I have two degrees in mathematics and had a career of software development. Then I was forced into early retirement after having been laid off twice.  Please do not let this happen to other American workers. Thank you.
I am strongly opposed to the proposed expansion of the optional practical training (OPT) program.  This is another way for companies to hire cheap foreign labor at the expense of American workers. I was directly impacted by programs such as this. I have two degrees in mathematics and had a career of software development. Then I was forced into early retirement after having been laid off twice.  Please do not let this happen to other American workers. Thank you.
Please accept this comment on the rule proposed b y the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to expand a program called Optional Practical Training (OPT). I understand that this program gives employers financial incentives to hire foreign students over Americans.It is clear that not only does the DHS's plan ensure that foreign-born graduates will be taking jobs that American college students desperately need, it also categorizes the foreign-born employees in such a way that exempts them from payroll taxes. My complaint is supported by a 2013 study from the Economic Policy Institute (EPI) that found there are plenty of American workers with and without degrees who are qualified to fill STEM jobs in IT sectors.   The EPI study found that encouraging foreign-born STEM graduates to spend more time in the U.S. has one major impact: wage suppression in tech-related fields.I stand up for U.S. STEM workers and American students seeking STEM careers and ask you to reject OPT.
As a displaced STEM worker this is insanity that our own government would promote foreigners over citizens... We no longer have a government by and for the people and these types of actions will make our citizens revolt to have our heritage and posterity handed over to others that have no ties to this nation, its wrong and will only hasten our demise.
As a displaced STEM worker this is insanity that our own government would promote foreigners over citizens... We no longer have a government by and for the people and these types of actions will make our citizens revolt to have our heritage and posterity handed over to others that have no ties to this nation, its wrong and will only hasten our demise.
Dear Sir or Madam,I am a graduate international student studying at University of Nebraska at Omaha. The extension of OPT is really important for us who own an American dream. With the extension, we may have three chances to access to H1B Visa which legalizes us to stay and work here, helping a lot for us to achieve our dreams.Sincerely,Zhiyuan Chen
*OPT denied American workers more than 430,000 jobs during the years 2009-2013; and*OPT removed $4 billion from the Social Security and Medicare trust funds.One of my kids is a STEM worker. He has worked very hard to get where he is today to learn his job, be an exceptional employee, earn promotions and, most importantly, take care of his family. Why should a foreigner be able to swoop in and take a job from a Hard Working American without a need for them to have that job other than a whim by our government?Why does our government want to destroy our middle class and put families into possible financial ruin because they no longer think Americans are worthy of a STEM job?There is something seriously wrong with a system that so easily replaces Hard Working Americans with less skilled foreigners. Why is so easy for our government to take money from Social Security and Medicare without thinking of our senior citizens possibly not having access to the money they worked so hard to earn?Shame on our politicians and our government for treating Americans like trash to be discarded in favor of foreign workers!
*OPT denied American workers more than 430,000 jobs during the years 2009-2013; and*OPT removed $4 billion from the Social Security and Medicare trust funds.One of my kids is a STEM worker. He has worked very hard to get where he is today to learn his job, be an exceptional employee, earn promotions and, most importantly, take care of his family. Why should a foreigner be able to swoop in and take a job from a Hard Working American without a need for them to have that job other than a whim by our government?Why does our government want to destroy our middle class and put families into possible financial ruin because they no longer think Americans are worthy of a STEM job?There is something seriously wrong with a system that so easily replaces Hard Working Americans with less skilled foreigners. Why is so easy for our government to take money from Social Security and Medicare without thinking of our senior citizens possibly not having access to the money they worked so hard to earn?Shame on our politicians and our government for treating Americans like trash to be discarded in favor of foreign workers!
I strongly support 24 months stem extension rule.
Dear Chief Westerlund:I would like to submit the following comments in response to the USICE Proposed Rule, Improving and Expanding Training Opportunities for F-1 Nonimmigrant Students with STEM Degrees and Cap-Gap Relief for All Eligible F-1 Students, published in the Federal Register on October 19, 2015.As an international student in the United States, I pursued (or am pursuing) a STEM degree and graduated in May 2015with a masters degree in the field of Electrical Engineering. The recent decision in Washington Alliance of Technology Workers v. U.S. Department of Homeland Security has eliminated the STEM OPT extension. Without the availability of a STEM extension, unless my employer is able to obtain an H-1B visa when the filing period commences on April 1, 2016, I will need to leave the United States when my OPT period concludes.I was glad to see the proposed rule for reinstituting the 2008 STEM OPT extension, cap gap relief, and especially an expansion and improvement of the previous rule.The OPT STEM Extension Should be Retained for the Benefit of STEM GraduatesThe proposal to reinstitute the STEM extension will provide valuable hands-on, educational experience in which STEM graduates gain real-world immersion into a chosen industry. This experiential learning will allow me to integrate knowledge and theory learned in the classroom with practical application and skills development in a professional setting. STEM graduates like me should be given more opportunity to gain valuable applied experience and make connections in professional fields they are considering for career paths. The additional OPT time will provide me with more broad exposure to industries and organizations to aid in personally developing and exploring career possibilities as well as creating a professional network. These benefits also will encourage future international students to join STEM programs in the U.S. and allow U.S. companies to remain competitive globally.Providing more OPT opportunities to STEM graduates will assist U.S. companies in the application of the latest strategies and techniques in the field. Expanding opportunities for STEM graduates benefits employers in high-tech industries by helping them to maintain connections with colleges and increase visibility on campus. This aids to promote community involvement and creates awareness of the field for future students and future employees. In addition, expanding practical training opportunities for international students will enhance U.S. companies by providing novel perspectives, fresh ideas, new processes, and specialized skill sets to augment the abilities of staff employees. Finally, STEM students will allow employers the opportunity to accomplish bigger projects, achieve more innovation, and develop new products and technology, all of which will further fuel the U.S. economy.The Duration of the STEM Extension Should be 24 MonthsIn order to be a meaningful learning experience, a 24-month extension combined with the initial 12 month OPT period is the appropriate duration to allow me to meet my planned learning goals and allow for active reflection on I am accomplishing throughout the experience. Students with up to 36 months of practical training can be assigned more challenging projects that better complement academic programs and career interests.ConclusionMany opponents of expanding the period of OPT seek to pit native-born workers against their foreign-born colleagues. But, in fact, workers do not compete against each other for a fixed number of jobs. The United States has created a dynamic and powerful economy, and immigrants of all types and skills, from every corner of the globe, have worked with native-born workers to build it. Skilled immigrants contributions to the U.S. economy help create new jobs and new opportunities for economic expansion. Indeed, foreign-born students who graduate with an advanced degree in STEM fields from U.S. universities positively impact the U.S. economy and employment opportunities of native-born workers.The most dramatic gains in U.S. employment come from immigrants who earned advanced degrees at US universities and are employed in STEM fields. Changing temporary immigration policies, such as by expanding the OPT period to 24 months, to favor holders of advanced degrees from U.S. universities in STEM fields is an obvious step given the demand for highly skilled workers and the extensive investment the country already makes in such students. Without a clear path to stay in the United States, these foreign students will fuel innovation and economic growth in countries that compete with the American economy.With this letter, I urge you to support the U.S. economy by implementing this new rule by February 12, 2016. Thank you for your consideration, time, and support in this matter.Sincerely,Zhao Cheng
Dear Chief Westerlund:I would like to submit the following comments in response to the USICE Proposed Rule, Improving and Expanding Training Opportunities for F-1 Nonimmigrant Students with STEM Degrees and Cap-Gap Relief for All Eligible F-1 Students, published in the Federal Register on October 19, 2015.As an international student in the United States, I pursued (or am pursuing) a STEM degree and graduated in May 2015with a masters degree in the field of Electrical Engineering. The recent decision in Washington Alliance of Technology Workers v. U.S. Department of Homeland Security has eliminated the STEM OPT extension. Without the availability of a STEM extension, unless my employer is able to obtain an H-1B visa when the filing period commences on April 1, 2016, I will need to leave the United States when my OPT period concludes.I was glad to see the proposed rule for reinstituting the 2008 STEM OPT extension, cap gap relief, and especially an expansion and improvement of the previous rule.The OPT STEM Extension Should be Retained for the Benefit of STEM GraduatesThe proposal to reinstitute the STEM extension will provide valuable hands-on, educational experience in which STEM graduates gain real-world immersion into a chosen industry. This experiential learning will allow me to integrate knowledge and theory learned in the classroom with practical application and skills development in a professional setting. STEM graduates like me should be given more opportunity to gain valuable applied experience and make connections in professional fields they are considering for career paths. The additional OPT time will provide me with more broad exposure to industries and organizations to aid in personally developing and exploring career possibilities as well as creating a professional network. These benefits also will encourage future international students to join STEM programs in the U.S. and allow U.S. companies to remain competitive globally.Providing more OPT opportunities to STEM graduates will assist U.S. companies in the application of the latest strategies and techniques in the field. Expanding opportunities for STEM graduates benefits employers in high-tech industries by helping them to maintain connections with colleges and increase visibility on campus. This aids to promote community involvement and creates awareness of the field for future students and future employees. In addition, expanding practical training opportunities for international students will enhance U.S. companies by providing novel perspectives, fresh ideas, new processes, and specialized skill sets to augment the abilities of staff employees. Finally, STEM students will allow employers the opportunity to accomplish bigger projects, achieve more innovation, and develop new products and technology, all of which will further fuel the U.S. economy.The Duration of the STEM Extension Should be 24 MonthsIn order to be a meaningful learning experience, a 24-month extension combined with the initial 12 month OPT period is the appropriate duration to allow me to meet my planned learning goals and allow for active reflection on I am accomplishing throughout the experience. Students with up to 36 months of practical training can be assigned more challenging projects that better complement academic programs and career interests.ConclusionMany opponents of expanding the period of OPT seek to pit native-born workers against their foreign-born colleagues. But, in fact, workers do not compete against each other for a fixed number of jobs. The United States has created a dynamic and powerful economy, and immigrants of all types and skills, from every corner of the globe, have worked with native-born workers to build it. Skilled immigrants contributions to the U.S. economy help create new jobs and new opportunities for economic expansion. Indeed, foreign-born students who graduate with an advanced degree in STEM fields from U.S. universities positively impact the U.S. economy and employment opportunities of native-born workers.The most dramatic gains in U.S. employment come from immigrants who earned advanced degrees at US universities and are employed in STEM fields. Changing temporary immigration policies, such as by expanding the OPT period to 24 months, to favor holders of advanced degrees from U.S. universities in STEM fields is an obvious step given the demand for highly skilled workers and the extensive investment the country already makes in such students. Without a clear path to stay in the United States, these foreign students will fuel innovation and economic growth in countries that compete with the American economy.With this letter, I urge you to support the U.S. economy by implementing this new rule by February 12, 2016. Thank you for your consideration, time, and support in this matter.Sincerely,Zhao Cheng
Employers should be given incentives to employ American students first and disincentives to employ foreign students.  If this country cannot provide sufficiently qualified students of its own then surely that tells the educators of this country they are not doing their duty!Furthermore a President who thinks he can introduce such a scheme and bypass not only 'We The People' but the students of 'We The People' has no business running the highest office in the land.
The immigrant-friendly culture in U.S. has made it the best country in the world. Definitely thumb up for the proposed rule!
The immigrant-friendly culture in U.S. has made it the best country in the world. Definitely thumb up for the proposed rule!
This is just another method of GOVT pandering to big business to drive down wages.  STEM college students shouldnt have to compete with foreign students who will accept lower wages just to stay here.  If you want more Americans to take STEM degrees stop giving their jobs away.
The Department of Homeland Security is proposing the expansion of the OPT program for foreign students. At the least this is counter productive for American workers because of the following:OPT denied American workers more than 430,000 jobs during the years 2009-2013; andOPT removed $4 billion from the Social Security and Medicare trust funds.This expansion must not take place.
I am a graduated student of Mechanical Engineering. That's a major need practice. You can learn how the tools work theoretically, but not in application. The expending is really help and strongly needed.
I am a graduated student of Mechanical Engineering. That's a major need practice. You can learn how the tools work theoretically, but not in application. The expending is really help and strongly needed.
I hear that Homeland Security is proposing a program that will add opportunity to illegals. Is my information correct? If the information is correct,how long are you fools going to fight against American U.S. born citizens? What is wrong with you? Why do you hate natural born Americans? How much more of this foolishness are we to adhere to? I oppose any efforts to further the war on U.S. born citizens!!! We pay taxes, pay to educate our children then have to compete with our own ruthless federal government for opportunities. I am ashamed of you.
This will definitely attract more talented students to US, which will increase the local economy as well as the number of skilled workforce in the states. Strongly agree with this.
This is an important proposal, since a period of 12 months is not enough for a student to find a job.  We are speaking about foreign nationals that are professional prepared since they received graduate, post graduate and even post doc degrees. This will give them also more chances to be selected in the H-1B CAP.
24 months STEM extension rule is a correct decision. It will be a good opportunity for everyone.
I support this decision for the reason that STEM students help in technological advancement of the nation and improve economy. Some people say that non-citizens are taking away the jobs, but the fact is that not many companies are ready to offer employment to non-citizens. Only 25% of good companies are ready to offer employment to non-citizens, this is in no comparison to the number of opportunities that the US citizens have.
First of all when these programs were implemented it was with the requirement that employers had to aggressively advertise for American workers. If after a period of time qualified workers could not be found then and only then could companies request H1-B foreign workers with Master degrees. Companies have been allowed to go around these requirement to the extent they are not firing American workers and replacing them with foreign cheap labor. There is no shortest of qualified American workers for these IT positions.
Although I am not a STEM major, I strongly support the STEM extension new policy. I live in the Silicon Valley, and I know much technology and tech companies contributed to the GDP of the country and the atmosphere of the tech prosperous of Silicon Valley. More importantly, STEM extension will NEVER harm job opportunities for the U.S. Citizens. First, if both an U.S. Citizen and an international STEM candidate are qualified and powerful candidates for a tech position, a company will still prefer to hire the citizen. Second, the new policy will benefit MORE U.S. citizens in fields other than STEM because in those fields less employers will be willing to sponsor H1b visa to the international candidates. They know that the total amount of H1b visa will not change, but the probability of STEM major winning the H1b visa increases. That basically lowers the probability that non-STEM majors winning the lottery, which makes less of the employers willing to take the risk. In other words, this policy is actually gaining more work opportunities to citizens from all the non-STEM fields, which have lot more job opportunities than STEM fields. Obviously, this policy is not only a way to attract more STEM experts from all over the world to maintain the countries' tech global position, but it also will benefit the citizens by saving more non-STEM job opportunities to them. Since It won't change the total amount of H1b visa winners every year, it would only gain STEM internatinal H1b candidates more opportunities from INTERNATIONAL non-STEM candidates, but NEVER from citizens.
A Freedom of Information Act request from the Center for Immigration Studies revealed two shocking takeaways about the OPT program that DHS proposes to expand:OPT denied American workers more than 430,000 jobs during the years 2009-2013; andOPT removed $4 billion from the Social Security and Medicare trust funds.This plan makes sure that foreign-born graduates will take jobs that American college students need and it also exempts foreign-born employees from payroll taxes.There are plenty of American workers with and without degrees who are qualified to fill STEM jobs in IT sectors.Our citizens need protection for Social Security and Medicare!
1) Have you considered the disadvantages you are placing against American students or are you simply providing more rules and regulations and bureaucracy for you to regulate and review as a form of job security at the expense of American students?Please answer this question and cite and explain properly sampled surveys and research papers prepared on this. Please provide the Administration's official comments and any opposing comments by Congressional representatives.On what constitutional basis can you deprive American students, such as my two daughters, in order to favor foreign students?Please answer this specific question with specific constitutional cites as well as cites to pertinent case law. Please explain to me, the father of two students, who pays taxes to the United States Government, of which you are a part, as a "government actor", how you are not unjustly an unconstitutionally disadvantaging me.Please cite the constitutional basis and pertinent case law.Please read the following and answer all questions posed and your response to all issues addressed. Do not send a form letter in response to the very personal and individual consequences of your proposals:A Freedom of Information Act request from the Center for Immigration Studies revealed two shocking takeaways about the OPT program that DHS proposes to expand:OPT denied American workers more than 430,000 jobs during the years 2009-2013; andOPT removed $4 billion from the Social Security and Medicare trust funds.Senator Charles Grassley of Iowa (in a letter to President Obama):"By increasing the total amount of time a foreign student may work in OPT after each degree to 3 years - the same amount of time that an H-1B visa would be valid - there is little doubt that the Administration has administratively established a de facto shadow H-1B program, in violation of Congressional intent."the proposed regulations are "irresponsible and dangerous considering the Government Accountability Office (GAO) report issued in March 2014 finding that the program was full of inefficiencies, susceptible to fraud, and that the Department was not adequately overseeing it.""The report also found a major national security problem in that the Department does not know where tens of thousands of foreign students are living and working in the country. The GAO said that 'ICE cannot fully ensure foreign students working under optional practical training are maintaining their legal status in the United States.'""After the GAO issued its report in 2014, I wrote to you and urged you to consider issuing a moratorium on OPT approvals until the program was secured and students could be located. I also asked that the Department swiftly move to implement the GAO's recommendations. The Director of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, Alejandro Mayorkas, responded on your behalf to my letter. He said the Department concurred with the recommendations and was working on them. I would like to know the status of each GAO recommendation, whether they have been fully implemented, and if not, why not.""OPT is meant to be a temporary training program, not as a bridge to a longer-term work visa or a way for employers to hire cheaper foreign labor in lieu of Americans."John Miano, attorney representing tech workers:the proposed rule effectively "requires employers and universities to engage in unlawful immigration status discrimination.""The rule requires these organizations to set up mentoring programs for foreign graduates to work under OPT. However, there is no requirement that American graduates receive the same benefit."Professor Norm Matloff of UC Davis:On a variety of measures, the former foreign students have talent lesser than, or equal to, their American peers.Skilled-foreign-worker programs are causing an internal brain drain in the United States.Ron Hira of Howard University:"It is pure fiction that someone with a master's degree in electrical engineering needs an additional three years to work as an intern to be a productive professional. Instead, the duration seems to come out of thin air, based purely on what the political types in the Obama White House believe that they can get through without facing significant opposition.""It's an over-reach to claim that someone who completes a master's degree in as little as 12 months needs three years interning -- at low or no pay in many cases -- to get further training."Daniel Costa, of the Economic Policy Institute:the worker protections included in the new rule "are so vague and deferential to employers that they will be virtually unenforceable in practice in any meaningful way."Ian Smith of the Immigration Reform Law Institute:"L
I would like to submit the following comments in response to the USICE Proposed Rule, "Improving and Expanding Training Opportunities for F-1 Nonimmigrant Students with STEM Degrees and Cap-Gap Relief for All Eligible F-1 Students," published in the Federal Register on October 19, 2015.As an international student in the United States, I pursued a STEM degree and graduated in May 2015 with a Master's degree in the field of Computer and Information Science. The recent decision in Washington Alliance of Technology Workers v. U.S. Department of Homeland Security has eliminated the STEM OPT extension. Without the availability of a STEM extension, unless my employer is able to obtain an H-1B visa when the filing period commences on April 1, 2016, I will need to leave the United States when my OPT period concludes.I was glad to see the proposed rule for re-instituting the 2008 STEM OPT extension, cap gap relief, and especially an expansion and improvement of the previous rule.The OPT STEM Extension Should be Retained for the Benefit of STEM GraduatesThe proposal to re-institute the STEM extension will provide valuable hands-on, educational experience in which STEM graduates gain real-world immersion into a chosen industry. This experiential learning will allow me to integrate knowledge and theory learned in the classroom with practical application and skills development in a professional setting. STEM graduates like me should be given more opportunity to gain valuable applied experience and make connections in professional fields they are considering for career paths. The additional OPT time will provide me with more broad exposure to industries and organizations to aid in personally developing and exploring career possibilities as well as creating a professional network. These benefits also will encourage future international students to join STEM programs in the U.S. and allow U.S. companies to remain competitive globally.The OPT STEM Extension Should be Retained for the Benefit of STEM EmployersProviding more OPT opportunities to STEM graduates will assist U.S. companies in the application of the latest strategies and techniques in the field. Expanding opportunities for STEM graduates benefits employers in high-tech industries by helping them to maintain connections with colleges and increase visibility on campus.The Duration of the STEM Extension Should be 24 MonthsIn order to be a meaningful learning experience, a 24-month extension combined with the initial 12 month OPT period is the appropriate duration to allow me to meet my planned learning goals and allow for active reflection on I am accomplishing throughout the experience. Students with up to 36 months of practical training can be assigned more challenging projects that better complement academic programs and career interests.Cap-Gap Relief is an Important Part of the 2008 Rule and Should be RetainedGiven that the H-1B visa program is a common mechanism for F-1 students to transition to the U.S. work environment, cap-gap relief is essential to avoid gaps in work authorization between the April filing window and the October start date of the H-1B visa.Options to Address Pending Applications and Students Already Granted a 17-Month ExtensionDHS should minimize the potential impact on STEM students in the event a final rule does not take effect before the vacatur of the 2008 Interim Final Rule. Many STEM students chose U.S. universities for higher education because of the availability of 29 months of practical training under the current rule. It would be a huge disappointment if students would instead only be able to remain for 12 months due to a delay in rulemaking. Therefore, the following options should be considered to best address STEM students already in OPT: First, any application for OPT STEM extension received by USCIS but not yet adjudicated prior to vacatur should be kept on hold until the new rule is in place. Second, any student already approved for a 17-month extension should be allowed to continue employment based on the approved OPT STEM extension. Third, a student in the 60-day grace period following initial period of OPT should be given the opportunity to apply for a STEM extension if the new rule takes effect during the student's 60-day grace period.ConclusionThe most dramatic gains in U.S. employment come from immigrants who earned advanced degrees at US universities and are employed in STEM fields. Changing temporary immigration policies, such as by expanding the OPT period to 24 months, to favor holders of advanced degrees from U.S. Without a clear path to stay in the United States, these foreign students will fuel innovation and economic growth in countries that compete with the American economy.With this letter, I urge you to support the U.S. economy by implementing this new rule by February 12, 2016. Thank you for your consideration, time, and support in this matter.Sincerely,Sridhar Reddy Voruganti
This extended OPT STEM rule will benefit both the F-1 non-immigrant students and the U.S. technology companies. Without this rule, the 1-year OPT can only guarantee students to work for U.S. companies for one year. Companies usually spend a few months in training a new employee and have to find a replacement in year. With this new rule, companies can hire an F-1 non-immigrant student for up to 3 years which definitely will benefit production. If U.S. government can not retain those students with STEM degree after graduation, then that will only benefit other competing countries.
This extended OPT STEM rule will benefit both the F-1 non-immigrant students and the U.S. technology companies. Without this rule, the 1-year OPT can only guarantee students to work for U.S. companies for one year. Companies usually spend a few months in training a new employee and have to find a replacement in year. With this new rule, companies can hire an F-1 non-immigrant student for up to 3 years which definitely will benefit production. If U.S. government can not retain those students with STEM degree after graduation, then that will only benefit other competing countries.
They aren't US citizens. Circumventing Congressional approval is unlawful. The Administration wants to raise the minimum wage but, at the same time pay American STEM workers less money by hiring non citizens. Is this a joke? Scrap this biased program and place qualified American citizens in these jobs. Only then, if you can't fill all required positions do you offer them to non US citizens. The F-1 program needs to be 12 months period. Let's build this country on the backs of qualified Americans not political favoritism.
Hi Team,This is the best proposal to safe guard the international students and eventually benefit the US economy. Thank you for reviewing and coming up with a optimum solution. We appreciate your decision and help.
You know if you don't wish to put Americans first you ought to move to another country!  Do the right thing and protect our jobs FIRST before even thinking of offering foreigners positions.
ABSOLUTLY no foreign workers ahead of Americans.  It is way past time for this government to stop coddling those immigrants over Americans.  What planet are you people living on?  Don't you know this is just one more way of helping Obama destroy our country?  You live here too, have two ears and eyes also, so why can you not see what he is doing.  STOP the insanity now!The cheap labor companies are paying now to hire labor from outside the US will come back to bite the companies doing this.  Has our world just come down to dollars and cents, or will it begin again with Sense returning to the Corporate World.  If that does not happen, does anyone in your company see what the future will be for your company who has joined Obama to destroy America?
The proposed rule of extension would surely help the STEM students to enhance their knowledge in their respective fields. It would also help the U.S government in economy and also encourage foriegn students. I will accept the rule for extension and it would help every one. STEM students are very happy with the proposed rule and surely the number will increase in coming years.
At a time when STEM workers in this country are being laid off and replaced with H1B immigrants, I think the question that really needs to be asked is if this bill is going to benefit the citizens of this country, or is it going to benefit big business and the CoC.What this rule proposes is to create more cheap competition in an already wage stagnant field, hence cause more job loss of citizens.
Yoy may as well just OUTLAW employing Americans and get it over with.
There is no need for further examination of the F-1 visa program, there has been plenty of study of this already; it is a destructive program that provides employers with cheap labor and gives the foreigner a virtual free greencard, the value of which is in the tens of thousands of dollars.The program HARMS American college students and destroys the careers of older American workers.There is also the security issue in play; why are we offering sensitive jobs to those with no allegiance to America?It is obscene that "our" government is complicit in this ugly scheme.
I fully support this proposal. STEM students are a valuable resource to growth not just in tech fields but also in any field that uses technology and should be retained as much as possible
Thanks for guaranteeing that I, with my physics degree since 2009, will continue making 10 to 12 dollars an hour part time in a job totally unrelated to STEM while big companies continue to import foreigners to do STEM work, to TRAIN to do the work, and my taxes help them pay for it all. Thanks for representing me, the American Citizen, in all this. You are truly serving the pubic, uh, I mean public.
Improving and Expanding OPT for F1-VISA students is really necessary and beneficial. It allows international students to have more time to practice and apply their skills to professional settings and gain experiences. Students majoring in stems are usually capable and talent. It's a win-win for both international students and the companies who hire them. It's also good for the economy.
Improving and Expanding OPT for F1-VISA students is really necessary and beneficial. It allows international students to have more time to practice and apply their skills to professional settings and gain experiences. Students majoring in stems are usually capable and talent. It's a win-win for both international students and the companies who hire them. It's also good for the economy.
I am sick and tired of the US Government giving preferential treatment to non citizens at the expense of USA citizens who have worked hard, at considerable expense, and graduated from USA colleges. Let this country change its course and give USA citizens a helping hand.
Let's keep these jobs for hard working Americans, not foreigners!!!
As a parent of F1 student at USA, I strongly support the newly proposed rule on STEM extension. Obviously, it is a reasonable and clever policy. It will definitely be valuable in maintaining the best competitive in education of US University around world and be greatly helpful to both students getting working experience and America Economy attracting the talented persons.
What good reason do you have for doing this?  Everything I've read about this 'program' only harms the American working man and woman.  How do you plan on keeping track of these 'students'?  There is no way you can do that.  We have millions of our own citizens trying desperately to find jobs and are unable to do that.  The only ones to benefit from this, is large corporations.  For shame on anyone who is for this.In case you haven't heard, Social Security is already in trouble.  What this program does it rob SS of even more money.Again, for shame, for shame.Many Americans, myself included, already feel we're strangers in our own country.
There are over 2 million unemployed residents of the United States with a bachelor's or higher STEM degree.The proposed "training improvements" circumvent hiring American workers at a competitive wage. They also end up compromising immigration laws as there is no effective system to monitor and control VISA holders length of stay.It is reported that many Americans with STEM degrees are not working in their specialties and the reasons for this should be explored,and understood prior to importing more competition in these fields.Big Tech lobbyists have spent millions seeking immigration increases; but Microsoft and Hewlett-Packard are laying off American employees and there are reports that Disney is forcing terminatedAmerican workers to train their foreign hired replacements.None of these conditions support the need for the proposed rule; rather a reduction in the opportunities for work in the US for F-1 students seems more appropriate.
I believe this proposal is very meaningful for many companies hiring international students. It encourages the job market, and absorbs the high "talent" worker in U.S. I totally agree with this proposal. Hope this works!
We cannot afford this.keep Americans working.
I understand the DHS denied American workers more than 430,000 jobs over a 4 year period and removed $4 billion from Social Security and Medicare trust funds. We are putting foreign students before our own.  Foreign students do not want to become part of our country but want to bring their own laws and customs.  They want us to assimilate into their culture.  Why aren't these special mentoring programs open to Americans?  Our constitution will not be protected, our laws will not be enforced by the foreign population and we will not be American any longer.  Please do not allow this to happen. Not only does the DHS plan ensure that foreign born graduates take jobs from American college students it also categorizes the foreign born employees in such a way that exempts them from payroll taxes. Also (OPT) Optional Practical Training givesemployers financial incentives to hire foreign students. Please do not play favoritism with our citizens.  This type of playingfavorites will backfire on our nation as a whole - increasing welfare and criminal activity because of job frustration.  This nation is on the brink of collapse because of a lack of common sense on the governments part.  This program needs to bescraped not expanded.  You cannot improve anything that is corrupt from its inception.
I studied mechanical engineering and mathematics in the 1950's and 1960's. I did not need more time after college to be trained. I was trained fully in my disciplines and I held full time, full work load jobs at a full salary. No intern period was required then for technical degreed people nor is it now. That is the nature of technical degrees in engineering and mathematics. It is also the case in most other sciences such as chemistry, biology, and physics. The only benefit from being able to hire foreign personnel is for large corporate structures to save money and for President Obama, the despot, to deliver on his promise to ruin the United States by putting American engineers on bread lines.No engineering student requires any time in training after she or he has secured a degree. This whole process is useless and is designed to allow big business and big government to screw Americans, again. Once the foreign person has secured his/her degree in the United States, send them home to pursue their careers. The USA has enough qualified engineers to fill any openings in any discipline any where in the country. And if that ever is not the case, then more US citizens will enter scientific and engineering colleges and universities to take advantage of the jobs available. It has always been thus.
Another example of the Government's deceitful subsidy and expansion of useless programs. Eliminating American workers from the labor force.  Adding nothing to the American safety net of citizens needing assistance.  Whoever designed this program should be fired.  We the people are getting smarter about Government by the Government instead of the People.  This is truly a good example of that. I as a voter will continue to educate my friends and  neighbors of the hazards bestowed on us by the Federal Government, and encourage them to do the same.
You must really hate the American people!  Another attack on the jobs available for American workers.   Our manufacturing jobs are all but gone because of this fantasy called FREE TRADE, you won't protect our own borders or enforce our immigration laws, more jobs lost.   And now this.  Is our Federal Government totally owned and controlled by Big Business?  Doesn't the future of young people in this country matter anymore?
Top Whom It May Concern:Improving and Expanding Training Opportunities for F-1 Nonimmigrant Students with STEM Degrees and Cap-Gap Relief for All Eligible F-1 Students is beyond reprehensible.  DHS has already put their hands in MY TILL by taking over $4 Billion of Social Security and Medicare trust funds.   In other words they have STOLEN MY BENEFITS to give to people who are NOT DESERVING. It is no wonder there will be no COLA again in 2016. Our COLA is going to corporate welfare as the employers don't pay FICA nor Medicare taxes because these "students" don't have to pay payroll taxes.  How absurd is that!  And DHS has denied over 430,000 Americans employment between 2009-2013 so that these so called "students" can have jobs.  That is being really loyal to your American citizen neighbors; friends and family.  How many of them could use $60,000-90,000 tax free money to support their families?  Oh, I forgot, they would have to pay all taxes so you can keep your tax funded job.  To even consider expanding this program is outrageous.  How do you sleep at night?  What is the legacy you are leaving your family members let alone your fellow American citizens?  SHAME ON YOU.
I agree with the expansion of opt time to 24 months for STEM student.
I strongly support this proposal as it will help fulfill human resource need of the country to some extent. International students will get valuable experience to help grow this country's economy. Please go ahead with this reform.
If the students is forced to leave US after one year OPT, it would be a loss for the company, since the former students is an experienced associate. Therefore, it is loss for the company because of the time and money devoted to train her and the time and money to recruit a new experience ones.As for the industry I am in, the IT auditor, it is valuable for the company to have an experienced staff and it is hard to recruit another experienced because as far as I know, my company, a big accounting firm ,spent two months to fill the experienced staff position regardless to say a senior position.In all, it would impact a lot of students who are now at the end of one year OPT. There are a lot of positions needed to be filled soon. by comparing the insufficient number of experienced people, the work of the company would slow down and the economy would also be impacted.
We absolutely do not need to give training to Illegal nonimmigrant Students.. NO Money, and No Training.   American citizens first.
I will strongly support this policy. It will definitely keep the workforce of the nation highly competitive. The policy will attract more talents as well.
I strongly recommend this proposed rule, This is a long awaited rule and should've been implemented much earlier. By allowing only 12 months of OPT it is not fair to the international students who have come from far countries in order to obtain most advanced information on technology and to get hands on experience . Retaining students who graduate from US universities will surely be a boost to the tech industry here rather than causing them to leave which is a Brain Drain. I saw some comments saying giving jobs to foreigners is corrupt and American students come first. Of course you are given priority before us. Have you ever wondered how tough it is to get a decent job and maintain status? Instead of saying we are foreigners why don't you check out where your ancestors are from? This is a nation built by immigrants. The land of the Free and home of the Brave. It will always be free to who ever wants to stay legally. You can show your anger towards the illegal immigrants. period.
I would like to say the actions of DHS is a direct slap in the face to most AMERICANS!  People who are born here need jobs and they need them now! Quit making it so easy to at the money I work for!
I oppose the Optional Practical Training (OPT) extension for students in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM).I am unable to obtain professional work for which I trained due to intense competition including competition from many non-citizens.  I earned BS in botany from Michigan State University, MS and PhD in plant pathology from Iowa State University, and later MS in statistics from University of Wisconsin--Madison.  I worked in agricultural research for 10 years and worked for 15 years in medical and health research.  I have publications in top journals (such as Archives of Ophthalmology affiliated with the Journal of the American Medical Association).  I have good references.  I lost my last professional job in January 2012 when all 3 of my closest coworkers were non-citizens, all in the process of renewing their visas.  I was top of my consulting class, the capstone class for the MS in statistics.  Much of my job competition comes from the 75% of my fellow statistics students who were non-citizens.  Faculty want to hire workers at 50% time to avoid paying benefits, or they want to hire full-time non-citizens avoiding payments for social security and avoiding payments for Medicare.  Hiring a non-citizen on a non-immigrant visa leaves the worker vulnerable so the hires will easily relinquish their right to authorship, another unfair attraction to employers.  The MS in statistics program has not changed appreciatively since I graduated in 2004, but I now have 10 years more experience than the current graduates.  I have good references from statisticians and medical research clients.  Yet, I now work at a Target store for $10 per hour while the university, corporations, and the news constantly repeat the claim of a shortage of workers trained in STEM.  I oppose subsidizing corporations or university programs by using tax money to train or import non-citizen STEM graduates to depress wages and promote age discrimination against US citizens.  Where is my bailout?
I would say that the OPT extension is only for the STEM international students. We should be aware of several facts here: 1. The percentage of the local US students and the unemployed US citizen of STEM is obviously much lower than the other fields. This means that even if we do not provide the OPT extension to those international students, It's not going to help anyway. Those unemployed US citizen or new graduates are competing much more with each other instead of with those international students. 2 Oppositely, If we do not extend the OPT which means there will be much less students working for the high tech companies (most of them they are US companies) at any point of time. Someone may argue that the H1-B are the same and it's nothing to do with the OPT, but you should also be aware of that if OPT is more 36 months which means even if he/she can not get an H1-B eventually, he/she can still work for those US companies for about 3 years which lead an optimized 3 times more students than what it is without the OPT extend. This will also do good to the US economy and then to other industries which are exactly what the US citizens and fresh graduates are looking for.In a word, the OPT extension is good for both the US government, the US citizens and the international students.
I would like to oppose the OPT rule because due this rule it invites lot of fraud process in the system. It helps lot of Indian INC companies i.e. companies with CEO'S mainly Indians to find an illegal way to cheat the system and i would like to tell you how and what is happening currently with lot of OPT students at least to 60% of students that are being currently recruited and placed. Please read it and understand the cheating that's happening right now: 1. The consultancy recruits OPT students by a simple process without an interview either by cold calling or by referrals and almost every company has a guest house where students are being accommodated providing food and shelter for a short period of time until they gets placed(yes i am referring to placed because even though you are recruited by the company you will be never paid until you get a contract job with client - as OPT have a rule that they can be given unpaid training every consultancy says that it is legal);. Upto this there is no big fraud or cheating that happening with the system from next step everything is illegal, unethical and unlawful.2. In the meanwhile he will be asked what kind of technology he is interested in and the consultancy will give guidance as in which technology has good job market billing rate and how he can easily get a job, will the job be easy or hard with fake experience etc. so then according to the nature the consultant/student selects the technology and consultancy will give training to consultant form then. Note: Please understand that the term training that i referred is not exact training way they will give to consultants/students. The trainer teaches basic concepts in technology and will mainly train he/she to how to survive in the job with 8-10 years of fake experience and will assure consultants that he will be taking the phone interview call for the consultant/student and will also makes a deal that he will be providing job support during consultant job which is unethical i.e. student after his office or during his office will either screen share or will be communicating his office work with trainer there by breaking the office confidentiality code. Trainer does the work for him according to consultant inputs for initial days until the consultant learns his work in his office. For this the trainer or the job backup will be paid hourly or monthly by the consultant. 2. Every consultant who have been hired in OPT will be given a sample fake resume after his training which has atleast 8-10 YEARS of experience to give him an idea how an experienced resume looks like and will be advised to make a resume that shall look like a sample fake resume that has been given to consultant. 3. The consultant/student in OPT agrees to it and then prepares a resume with fake resume which includes client names and company names, years that he has worked which in reality he has never worked on. Then the client names the he puts on the resume is carefully reviewed by consultancy and consultancy will make sure that at least first 2 clients that they put have some body in the client's location either full time or contractor that consultancy knows. The reason for that is to provide job reference when client recruiter asks about reference from his previous jobs  4. Then after the resume is prepared with fake years of experience with fake clients they which here the consultancy markets the resume with their marketing team with fake resumes. Thus the fake resume goes into markets with the consultant details and google voice number almost all the consultants will be advised to have a google voice number in their resume instead of personal numbers which is left to you to decide for what they are doing like that 5.So then the fake resume goes to a prime vendor where the vendor calls the consultant  to verify his job responsibilities, so now the consultant will be well prepared with his fake resume as in how to speak when a vendor calls, so when the vendor calls the consultant the consultant will keep his fake resume in front and talks to him in that fake resume way. Then if the vendor feels good in the phone then he will forward that to main client recruiter/manager. 6. So this is the main step, so when consultant gets the interview confirmation with client manager he then calls his back up or calls his consultancy to arrange a backup. So if it is a phone interview then the consultant will put a call forwarding to the backup resource who will be taking the call for the consultancy thus inviting unethical activity. SO the consultant will forward his fake resume and details to back up so that back up will speak to client manager accordingly and thus gets paid if the consultant gets a job after the interview call as he helped consultant which will be paid by consultancy. Then the consultant if selected will be sent to that client
This extension is very important for both US and International candidates as candidates bring great talent and US companies provide a great paltform.
I fully support the new change of increasing the F1 OPT STEM extension to 24 months instead of the current 17 months. I believe this increased duration of practical training is important for students to fully utilize the education they received. This is also imperative to maintain this nation's economic, scientific, and technological competitiveness. So, Please think to one more time on increasing the F1 OPT STEM extension to 36 months instead of the current 17 months which can give enough time for students to utilize the education and can give maximum help in the growth on nation both technically and economically.
It is past time to make policy that ensures America , and Americans first when it come to employment I hail from inner city Detroit an OEM business. You folks in the federal governemnt have given away most of the manufacturing base of this country. This is just more misguided damage to America and Americans The answer is no time to curb immigration,and work visa's  sincerely Chris Savard
It seems that the OPT program for foreign STEM subject graduates is unfair discrimination against American citizens who are competing in the workplace as STEM graduates. Indeed, there are Americans in the STEM fields who are unemployed, possibly because of this unfiair program. Foriegn graduates can find mentoring in their own countries. Send them home and let them do so.
I fully support the new rule. This new rule will absolutely strengthen Unite States' leading position in technology. In addition, it will greatly improve the level of communication among highly talented people in STEM fields from all over the world. Beyond all doubt, it is a great move.
I support the new change made of increasing the F1 OPT STEM extension to 24 months. It helps us to fully utilize the education we received.
It is definitely wrong to even consider hiring an immigrant non-citizen, regardless of their training or expertise, when so many of our qualified citizens can and desire to work and provide for themselves and those depending on them. I wouldn't hire anyone that wasn't  a citizen of the United States.This is not right nor should you be wasting your time and our money, even considering doing this. Instead you all should be doing all within your power to keep illegal aliens OUT. This intrusion into our country needs to be stopped and that should be your primary and only concern.Thank you for reading this as I definitely will be writing many letters, along with many of my friends, to have you busy doing something more constructive than helping those that are attempting to enter this country take our jobs for themselves. God bless you as you work and that you will be convicted that what you are doing is not patriotic when you get jobs for aliens and that it is WRONG!
NO DEAL!!!! LET'S HELP PEOPLE IN THIS COUNTRY WHO PAY TAXES. STOP HELPING THE WORLD BECAUSE SURE ARE NOT HELPING US.
Enough BS. Let's  start taking care of Americans first. This crap is going to be remembered in Nov of 2016
This is utter nonsense! We have unemployed American citizens who have paid taxes to support our government and you are caving in to special interests who use unneeded foreign workers while they lay off Americans who can do the jobs they say they need workers for. This undermines American workers and pay scales and is poor policy that should be ended.
I want the extension for OPT. Thanks so much.
It's hard enough already for American workers, especially recent U.S. graduates to find work and this proposed rule would make  it it even more difficult by adding un-necessary job competition to the mix.I am opposed to this proposed rule change.
I am supportive.
That's an awesome policy! With this policy international student in STEM major can stay longer in US, and have more possibility to get work visa. Since local candidates can't always meet the STEM related companies job requirement and quantity, this policy could help them get sufficient talent employees, and create more jobs for local people(think about Uber).  What's more, nowadays many international students have great ideas and want to run start-ups themselves. But they are always stopped by only 1 year of OPT and concern of visa sponsorship. Now they have more time to try their ideas and manage business to qualify the H-1B visa requirement for self-employed. Overall, this policy could help US companies to get more talent employees, and may lead to more new companies and more jobs, which benefit local people.
Flooding the STEM fields with cheap workers is not a reasonable solution for any perceived shortage. Studies have shown that there not a shortage of STEM workers, but rather a they are actually undervalued by companies who do not want to pay a reasonable wage for their services. Extending the OTP program plays into this desire to pay low wages and increase competition in a field already dominated by people willing to work cheaply for the sole purpose of staying in the country. The OPT program is used to circumvent the H-1B requirements, minimal as they are.The OPT and H-1B program are also used by companies to offshore jobs. It is in the best interest of the government to keep jobs in the United States to increase the tax base and keep it's citizens employed. the vast majority of jobs that go off shore never come back.I sincerely hope that ICE and the DHS drop the idea of expanding the OPT program and return it to it's original levels, or drop the program altogether. There are already plenty of programs that can be used to keep exceptional foreign students in the country. The OPT program isn't necessary or warranted.
Fully support the new rule. If you think this rule sabotages the employment of Americans, please take a look at the jobs these STEM international students have and also the unemployment cases. There's no direct causality inbetween. Numerous highly skilled immigrants contributed to the US in the past decades. Now attracting and retaining international students in math, science, engineering and technology is important to keep the nation competitive and strong. I highly support the new OPT extension rule.
I guess this would really help US to utilize the international skills in its development.
I am very happy with the fact that DHS came up with better rules this time in order to benefit OPT STEM students. However, I feel that the mandatory rule that requires employers to provide training and mentorship to STEM student might backfire for firms that have very little resources. I honestly feel that in a real world environment there are cases when students should be able to learn on the job by themselves. I believe that DHS should not include this rule because it might prevent employers to hire OPT STEM students because of this. On the bright side, DHS proposal to increase the STEM opt to 24 months is a welcome change. It will enable the students have better chance to qualify for h1b lottery as they will have more chances.
This is just another way of keeping Americans out of work.  You already have enough immigrants to take jobs away but that is not good enough for evil people like you.  You will be a supporter of this NWO and depopulation and carry out this evil agenda that obummer is pushing.  All government is against the people, plain as day.
Are you out of your fucking mind.  How beneficial is an entry-level employee?  This kills American STEM grads.
This should not be implemented:By increasing the total amount of time a foreign student may work in OPT after each degree to 3 years - the same amount of time that an H-1B visa would be valid - there is little doubt that the Administration has administratively established a de facto shadow H-1B program, in violation of Congressional intent.The proposed regulations are "irresponsible and dangerous" considering the Government Accountability Office (GAO) report issued in March 2014 finding that the program was full of inefficiencies, susceptible to fraud, and that the Department was not adequately overseeing it.The report also found a major national security problem in that the Department does not know where tens of thousands of foreign students are living and working in the country. The GAO said that 'ICE cannot fully ensure foreign students working under optional practical training are maintaining their legal status in the United States.'Thank You.
This is a great proposal. It helps both current F-1 students, and more importantly, all business that are hiring F-1 students, as we all know a large percentage of STEM workers are foreign.Please allow the extension from 17-month to 24-month automatic for current 17-month OPT-STEM holder, since it would reduce the overhead for both the students and USCIS. Otherwise, on Feb 13, 2016, if the rule becomes effective, there could potentially be a huge number of applications, even more so than the H1B petitions.
WHY has the Department of Homeland Security proposed a rule to expand a   program called Optional Practical Training (OPT), which gives employers   financial incentives to hire foreign students over Americans, given the  sickeningly high US unemployment and abysmally low economic recovery   figures???  I am against such a disgraceful attempt to hurt Americans  financially.  Optional Practical Training (OPT) - through which employers hire more   than 120,000 young, foreign, college graduates per year who hold F-1   visas - FORCE Americans out of the computer science field and creates   a FALSE, self-fulfilling, so-called 'shortage' of STEM workers in America.  OPT is meant to be a temporary training program, not as a bridge to   a longer-term work visa or a way for employers to hire cheaper foreign   labor in lieu of Americans. The proposed rule of adding 24 months of   discrimination against Americans effectively entices and allows   employers and universities to engage in unlawful immigration status   discrimination. Why is the Obama administration's DHS so bent on hurting   American citizens, with DHS's OPT ?
I am supportive of the new rule regarding the 24-month OPT extension for STEM students, but I am also urging them to extend this further for 24 + 24 months extension. Although this rule will substantially reduces the losses of contributing foreign employees for US companies and also ensures that employers to continuously provide high technology and healthcare to American citizens. In addition, this rule will encourage future foreign students in the STEM field to perform scientific research in the US universities.  which is not only financially beneficial to US universities, but also to adds cultural diversity and intellectual properties to the US universities.
Dear ICEB:Your proposed rule to expand the Optional Practical Training (OPT) is appalling breach of trust with the American people.That program is being pushed by greedy US executives who want a flood of cheap young workers so that they can depress wages.There is no tech worker shortage.  There is only a shortage of US companies who want to pay honest rates for talent.Read this: https://normsaysno.wordpress.com/2015/10/20/dhs-unabashedly-biased-in-its-new-opt-proposal/
I strongly support this rule. I completed my PhD in electrical engineering from University of Minnesota-Twin Cities and I am working in a reputed company but my H-1B application did not get selected in the lottery last year. This rule would definitely help me, and it can even further help my wife who was also not selected at H-1B lottery this year. Her OPT STEM extension expires in December 2015 and I was hoping this rule, which gives her 7 more months of OPT, will be implemented sooner allowing her to have one more chance at H-1B. I would like to further suggest changing this rule in a way such that people like my wife who will potentially be in the 60-day grace period after expiration of OPT status (Feb 2015 for my wife) would also be able to use this extension. This will give them another chance to apply for H-1B and keep contributing to American economy. My wife was awarded her master's degree in a microbiology-molecular biology combined program from University of Minnesota- Twin Cities and she is currently working as a scientist in a leading diagnostic company. She works on projects that will be making real difference for patients not just in America but all over the world. She would have to stop working in December even though she has a published thesis and years of experience. Only other alternative we have is both of us leave US and rebuild our future elsewhere. Another reason that this rule should be implemented as soon as possible is the number of applications submitted for H-1B are getting higher and higher (more than 220,000 in 2015). This leads to a significant decrease in the chances of students, who have spent years here studying and honing their skills, getting a H-1B visa. It is difficult to understand the point of sending away highly skilled workers who were educated here and are already well-versed and immersed with the US culture, and instead bringing in lesser skilled foreign educated workers every year though H-1Bs. Especially the students who spent more than 5 years doing PhD in US having to go back to their home countries because of this is just not a fair system. In current rule, a student can receive one 24-months extension and can get another 24-months extension if he/she pursues and completes a higher STEM degree. This makes it unfair for students who are pursuing PhD. Once they are done with their degree, they can only get one extension as there is no higher degree to pursue. This rule should allow the students who have completed PhD degree to take two 24 months extension if they have not taken any previous extension.
I DONT WANT FOREIGN STEM WORKERS TO BE BROUGHT INTO THSI COUNTRY ANYMORE. WE ARE OVERHWLMED WITH THESE FOREIGNERS CMOING HERE AND TAKING JOBS FOR LESS MONEY THAN AMERICAN WORKERS. KEEP THEM ALL OUT. SHUT DOWN ALL PROGRAMS THAT BRING IN FOREIGN WOERKERS. MAKE EVERY JOB AN AMERICAN JOB. AND STOP THE BIG COROPORATIONS FROM BUILDING PLANTS IN MEXICO TO EXPORT AMERICAN JOBS TO OTHER COUNTRIES. THIS HAS GONE TOO FAR. IF YOU SELL IT I NAMERICAN MAKE IT IN AMERICA. STOP THIS EXPORT OF AL THAT M,ADE3 AMERICA A GOOD PLACE TO LIVE. WE ARE OVERWWHELMED WITH FOREIGNERS HERE. ALL IMMIGRATION PROGRAMS HSOULD  BE SHUT DOWN. ALL ILLEGAL  IMIGRANTS SHOULD BE QUICKLY DEPORTED FROM THE USA. W ENEE DTO TO TO ALL THESE CORPORATIONS AND BUSINESSES THAT ARE HIRIGN FOREIGN WOKERS AND FORCE THEM TO FIRE ALL ILLEGAL WORKERS. WE ARE EING DEVOURED IN THIS COUNTRY WITH FOREIGNERS TNEAKING IN HERE. OVERSTAYING THEIR VISAS. WHY DOESNT HTE STTAE DEPT HAVE A PROGRAM WHEN THEY HAVE KNOWN FOR TEN YEARS THAT VISA STAYERS ARE OVERSTAYING THEIR VISAS AND WORKING. WHY HAS OUR STAT EDEPT BECOME A LAUGHING STOCK IN DOING THEIR JOB RESPONSIBLY?  IT SI STIM ETO CLAL A HALT OT FOREIGN WORKES COMING HERE. THROR THEM ALL OUT IF THEY HAVE NO LEGLA RIGHT TO BE HERE AND STOP THE CITIZENSHIP HASTILY DRANW CEREMONIES TAKIN GPLACE BECAUSE OF OBAMA EXEUCTIVE ORDERS. HE IS RUINING THIS COUNTRY. HE SEEM TO HATE AMERICA. HE SEEM TO HATE THE AMERICANS WHO LIVE HTRE.
I fully support the new change of increasing the F1 OPT STEM extension to 24 months instead of the current 17 months. I believe this increased duration of practical training is important for students to fully utilize the education they received. It doesn't make any sense to make them leave after graduation. We provide a valuable education and make them bright students and let them leave to create business opportunities on other countries? Instead we should keep the talent within the county and give them a chance to create more opportunities within the nation.  But, this new rule putting more responsibilities on the employer who is gonna hire a OPT student in terms of providing a proof related to training and mentoring etc... Its kind of discouraging the employer to hire a OPT student. I believe, there should be some changes in that aspect. Finally, I really appreciate the rule and support it.
It is good for all the stem extension so I support it completely
I strongly support this rule.I believe the extension from 17 to 24 months will strengthen the power of US science and technology and boost US economy in the long run.
Improving and Expanding OPT is a great chance for those STEM students like me to gain more work experiences at USA. I'm very happy to support this new rule.
Improving and Expanding OPT is a great chance for those STEM students like me to gain more work experiences at USA. I'm very happy to support this new rule.
As a growing company trying to education young US students in advanced STEM fields, I feel that the OPT extension allows us to hire talent to pass forward to our students.I am a huge supporter of keeping the OPT extension period and increasing it to 24 months.
I strongly agree with this policy. The economy of US will be hurt if it cancel the OPT.
I want the stem extension to 24 months
As a 4 year university degree in electrical engineering, almost 5 years in the US military, 25+ years working in the industry I have seen a tremendous disparity, disappointment in the idea of "The American Dream"Being unemployed or underemployed for at least a 1/3 of my working career due to having to train a foreigner on US soil to attempt to do my job more than a few times is quite disheartening - only to be lied to usually with the line "hey this will create more &amp; better jobs for all of you), only to be standing in the unemployment line the next dayI have never been arrested, never been convicted of a crime, I speak 3 other languages (Mandarin, German &amp; Arabic) other than English, I don't drink, smoke, party, I am a workaholic, strong work ethic, etc...But what does corporate America do, they through people like me, Joe public under the bus so they can claim they are more competitive, they wine &amp; dine the politicians American citizens voted into office only to be stabbed in the back
<span style="padding-left: 30px"></span>MORE lunacy from this government of complete traitors. Jobs should go to Americans and only Americans. Not to any person who is in this country illegally. No matter what Obama has to say.
With Millions of American citizens and American students out of a job, and are looking for one,  this proposal is a disgrace to all.   We need to put our own citizens needs first, and if there are any opportunities left over, then we can bring in more workers.
I think international students play an important role in US's working force, and will become more and more important.  It is fair and reasonable to extend OPT, so as to benefit the country's economy
This rule is vital for all the international students in USA and will be encouraging their hard efforts put on acquiring their masters degree from world reputed universities here. I strongly support this initiative.
OPT is benefit for both USA and international students. As we all know, USA has the most advanced technology and the best university in the world, which attracts the most talented people to study or work. Young international students,who mostly are the most hardworking and smartest people in their home country, have the most creative ideas, which can do a huge progress in area of high  technology. These idea will be implemented by creating a company or create a new program in some company, which means it will bring huge working opportunity for US citizens. As we all know, there are many international students whose major are "stem" in high-tech company. And they do a great job in company which can bring huge profit to their company and it will reflect in the GDP of USA. Realizing the 24 extension of OPT will have a great effect on the development of USA.
Allowing students to be employed under OPT with the STEM extension is a fantastic benefit for the United States and its economy. These are the students that come to the United States and study inside the country, and get degrees inside the country. They are a value asset that the US invested in. These students want to invest back into the country. From my experience, they all look for jobs in the same way as any other American citizen does, they go through absolutely the same interview process and are exposed to the same benefits as American citizens - the wage difference is a myth that is being perpetuated by parties not familiar with the subject. There is no problem with "fairness" - every single international student goes through the same exact process as any American to get employed, but with ten times more restrictions. Whoever mentioned that it is just a matter of hiring foreign workers for cheap labor is, once again - not aware of the process to get a work authorization. Coming to the United States on an F-1 visa, pay out-of-state tuition, combined with international fees, limited amount of on and off-campus employment, restrictions for work hours - all these are the things international students are already going through that no American student does. If on top of that, they are passionate and talented enough to apply for high-skill jobs, and get them - America cannot afford to lose those students.The future Bill Gates, Elon Musk, Steve Jobs - all of them are there. Every single international STEM student that I got the honor to meet over the past couple of years showed tremendous work ethic, dedication and most of all - appreciation for what the United States has to offer. These are the people that gave up on a lot to come to the US and study - study in fields that are by no means trivial. Major innovators in this country were all immigrants or descendants of immigrants - it's time we look past someone's origin and more at their abilities and willingness to do great work.United States was always known as a global economy. This country has more impact worldwide than any other nation. This means that to maintain that status, we need global talent. Enrollment in STEM degrees goes up, but graduation rates in the same areas do not. Every year there is a fixed number of students with advanced degrees that graduate, but not nearly at a fast enough rate to fill all positions. There is an extremely high-demand for top-skill jobs that are going unfilled. Not because of wages, but because of lack of skilled enough individuals. This is why it should be US' top interest to ensure that it can retain those who have those skills, and more so - grew those skills at universities across the country.I urge you to pass this legislation to ensure that United States remains a country that can innovate and produce technology that benefits the entire world.
Is it not time for our congress and executive stood up for the citizens. The illegals now have more advantage then the citizens WHO PAY TAX AND THE SALARY TO THE CONGRESS AND THE EXECUTIVE OFFICERS (PRESIDENT AND HIS STAFF).  This is a sad day for our citizens and the worthless congress and president we have.
This proposal by the DHS to extend the OPT to 24 months is yet another slap in the face to American technologists.I remember distinctly in the 1960s and '70s, the worries of my father, an electronic engineer, over possibly being laid off and being unable to find employment at competitive wages for a man in his 40s to 50s.The OPT extension is essentially the same thing only applied to the opposite end of the age range.If DHS really is in the alleged business of "Homeland Security", let it start by protecting qualified technologists from foreign invasion.If DHS is unable or unwilling to do so, perhaps the personnel of DHS can be replaced by foreigners as well.
That's very great for STEM International students!
That's very great for STEM International students!
This will be a great policy that helps the educated international students bring their professionals to the country. The extension on OPT period gives more opportunities to the international students to get selected by the H1B lottery. This also secure the employer company so that they won't worry about dropping good candidate who may has been well trained by the employer.
The Department of Homeland Securit! y has proposed a rule to expand a program called Optional Practical Training (OPT), which gives employers financial incentives to hire foreign students over AmericansReally!! The federal government of the USA is giving incentives to corps. to hire NON US CITIZENS graduates over AMERICAN CITIZEN graduates.UNBELIEVABLE!!!!!Well, NOT REALLY when you look at all the other ANTI-AMERICAN incentives/laws put forth from this administration.PLEASE, go find your BRAIN, you really need it???!!!!
It is ludicrous and borders on the insane to keep importing foreign laborers when millions of our Americans are out of work and can't even find a job.  Let's hire our own people first--there are many out there and would love to get that job rather than let a foreigner get.Therefore, I most adamantly oppose this program
It is hard to believe a federal agency would have a rule that puts immigrant students ahead of USA students for STEM job opportunities.  That rule is a disgrace.  I would like to see whoever is responsible for the rule, and whoever helped to make this rule, fired for incompetence with a undesirable job recommendation.To offset this incompetence, the new rule should require all employers seeking job applicants to do a national search for several months.  The job search should be done by a national company that is totally separate from the government.  Only after this search fails to find someone, can a employer look for an immigrant.  The prospective employer will then have to submit endless volumes of paperwork to the government to justify seeking to hire an immigrant.  The government is very good at making endless volumes of worthless paperwork.  This would encourage employers to look closer for a student form here.  Then, that immigrant must be paid the same wage that the citizen would be paid.  The government should then do something to make students from here more attracted to STEM jobs, something like, paid off student loans after working for several years (6-10) in a STEM field.<span style="padding-left: 30px"></span>
As an employer/manager of foreign nationals currently on a STEM extension because of pending H1-B applications, I enthusiastically support this proposal and urge for it to be made a part of our nation's policies.
I'm sure you have heard all the reasons, at least once. The only thing I have to say about it is  AMERICA &amp; AMERICANS FIRST AND ALWAYS.........
The expanded OPT program will:Allow most participants to pays NO money into Social Security or Medicare;Take hundreds of thousands of American jobs and hands them to foreigners; Fail to require employers to pay the prevailing (usual) wage. This is not good for American Workers!
It is a great news for F-1 students. We do need this.
By hiring foreign students, corporations are not paying 7.5% into the federal coffers for each paycheck. This means ONE BILLION DOLLARS shortfall for Medicare and Social Security programs PER YEAR. This bill is a shadow bill launched by the President to circumvent the wishes of Congress and the wishes of many citizens. Existing taxpayers/workers are training immigrants to take their jobs. I.E Disney World.The proposals are presented as humanitarian, yet buckles to corporate interests over the needs of seniors who paid into a system all of their lives. There is little if any training going on in these corporations. It is all about cheap labor. The students are supposedly going back to their native countries to spread their knowledge. Oh please, do you really belief this malarkey for a moment? Sounds like a bad used car salesperson. Many immigrant students on work visas overstay. Some apply for citizenship or just blend in without paying into the system. However, they use our social services and medical systems that they never paid for. Great deal for them. Lousy deal especially for seniors that have waited a lifetime to feel a little more secure. MILLIONS 60+ lost their jobs during the great recession. Just another scam and an end run to hide the truth.My biggest mistake ever was voting for Obama. He is acting like a King, not a President. Biggest sell-out of American workers ever. I want my country back. There will be a wave of former Democrats voting Republican next year do to this favoritism. Why is it that foreign workers have an extra advantage over citizens that built the system that they so much are taking advantage of? I am STRONGLY against immigrant bashing. But I believe everyone should wait in line for citizenship and quit asking for, and getting, a special advantage. Fairness used to be the American way. Now we expose ourselves as saps to the world. Human nature takes over and the abuse begins. We don't have the money anymore. PLEASE WAKE UP!!!
I completely support the proposal to increase STEM extension period from 17 months to 24 months. The nation would greatly benefit from this as it would help in economic and technological progress.
"Please add "Doctor of Dental Medicine, DMD and Doctor of Dental Surgery, DDS to the STEM degree list"
This seems like a great opportunity. US and students have a lot to gain from this extension.
I am supporting the new 24 months OPT-STEM extension for F-1 Nonimmigrant students.
This is so great!I think this will definitely help me a lot.It can be better if the extension can be longer.
Stop the STEM so that foreigners stay in this country longer while employers do not pay taxes.
Please stand up for American workers and do not expand the Optional Practical Training program because it would hurt American workers. Thank you.
the newly modified policy about extending STEM related international students to work legally for 24 months is awesome if it can be approved by the immigration government.  Personally, the US is a country with diverse ethnicities, which is the origin of its foundation and motivation.  The American Dream is to let every one with talented skills can compete fairly in the related fields.  It's because of the diversity and inclusive that shapes America as it is today.  I just want to say the extension policy will greatly benefit American people, because it saves lots of talents in many areas from rushing into other countries.  In the long run, it's a win-win policy for both American people and our international students.
The OPT program has been a tried and tested way of bringing in and keeping talent within the United States of America. The OPT has been the reason why the US is the first choice among Chinese and Indian students seeking to further their skills and contribute to the Tech industry.It is beneficial for the US IT Industry as well, as they are able to hire strong talent for a lower pay. Without the OPT extension, companies would start to lose talent and will end up paying a lot more for sub standard talent. I believe the 24 month extension is vital for the sustenance and growth of the US Tech sector.
There are approximately 568,000 F-1 students in the U.S. in addition to 98,000 in 12-month OPT programs and 30,000 in 29-month OPT programs. Giving employers incentive to hire from this giant pool of workers undermines the job opportunities for American STEM workers.Sen. Charles Grassley, in a letter to President Obama, stated:"By increasing the total amount of time a foreign student may work in OPT after each degree to 3 years - the same amount of time that an H-1B visa would be valid - there is little doubt that the Administration has administratively established a de facto shadow H-1B program, in violation of Congressional intent." I agree wholeheartedly.OPTs are sought after by employers because they tend to be younger (cheaper) than their American competitors. Employers save 7.65 percent when they hire foreign students instead of US workers because they don't pay FICA or Medicare taxes under the OPT program. OPT workers often hold jobs in the $60-$90,000 a year range, but they cost Social Security about $1 billion dollars a year.The proposed regulations are irresponsible and dangerous considering the Government Accountability Office (GAO) report issued in March 2014 finding that the program was full of inefficiencies, susceptible to fraud, and that the Department was not adequately overseeing it. The report also found a major national security problem in that the Department does not know where tens of thousands of foreign students are living and working in the country. The GAO said that 'ICE cannot fully ensure foreign students working under optional practical training are maintaining their legal status in the United States.'OPT is meant to be a temporary training program, not as a bridge to a longer-term work visa or a way for employers to hire cheaper foreign labor in lieu of Americans. On a variety of measures, the former foreign students have talent lesser than, or equal to, their American peers. Skilled-foreign-worker programs are causing an internal brain drain in the United States.If the U.S. indeed "needs" the foreign students to remedy a STEM labor shortage, why do these students need training? If workers with such training are indeed needed, why won't these special mentoring programs be open to Americans? There is no training in this program. It is just one more foreign worker program and it has nothing to do with students; it is for recent alien college graduates. U.S. employers are given a substantial bonus for hiring an alien college grad rather than an American college grad with the same skills and the same salary...it can be above $10,000. DHS, by defining a recent college grad as a student, takes both the worker and the employer out from under payroll taxes -- thus penalizing the Social Security and Medicare trust funds directly, and our elders indirectly. If the bonus given to employers for hiring a STEM graduate is worth $10,000 under the old rules, it is now worth $12,000, and is that much more likely to cause an employer to hire a former F-1 student than a green card or citizen graduate.Not only does the DHS's plan ensure that foreign-born graduates will be taking jobs that American college students desperately need, it also categorizes the foreign-born employees in such a way that exempts them from payroll taxes. A 2013 study from the Economic Policy Institute found that there are plenty of American workers with and without degrees who are qualified to fill STEM jobs in IT sectors. Encouraging foreign-born STEM graduates to spend more time in the U.S. has one major impact, the EPI study found: wage suppression in tech-related fields.The worker protections included in the new rule "are so vague and deferential to employers that they will be virtually unenforceable in practice in any meaningful way.They do not even guarantee that those foreign graduates are paid the minimum wage, let alone the prevailing wage, they chase Americans out of computer science and they create a self-fulfilling 'shortage' as Americans respond to a relatively better market as engineers in other fields."To summarize, this proposed rule is so ill-advised that it needs to be totally scrapped. We need programs for putting Americans to work, not programs like this that give American jobs to cheap foreign labor.
I support the STEM extension. The U.S. shouldn't let those high demanded talents go away.
I support the STEM extension. The U.S. shouldn't let those high demanded talents go away.
The OPT proposed rule change is illegal and counter-productive.  In its' first 5 years, OPT cost 430,000 American jobs and cut $4 Billion out of Social Security and Medicare.This OPT program favors foreign workers over Americans.  That is inherently wrong, when we have a shortage of STEM jobs for our own citizens.  Employers save 7.65% by hiring foreign workers.  These foreigners are paid $60-$90,000 per year, and, because they don't pay payroll taxes, it costs Social Security $1 Billion each year.  This is unjust to American taxpayers.If you add OPT-12 and OPT-29 workers to existing F-1 student workers, almost 700,000 jobs are already filled by foreign workers in an economy that has 94,000,000 unemployed or under-employed Americans.This OPT program is already out of control.  Don't make it worse.
That's great.US need such guys work for us.
I agree we this previous comment: "I oppose the Department of Homeland Security's proposed rule that would expand the Optional Practical Training program. This expansion would allow U.S. tech companies to hire foreign students for up to 3 years and avoid paying their share of payroll taxes, equivalent to 7.65% of the employee's pay. Not only does this program create an incentive for these companies to hire foreign students over qualified Americans, but it also could violate the foreign student's pledge when they received their F-1 visa to leave the country after completing their degree. With recent college graduates struggling to find work, this is not the time to provide companies with an incentive to hire foreign citizens over U.S. citizens." Please reject this proposal to expand the optional training program as it does nothing to protect American workers.
This is just another example of a well-meaning program that has been hijacked and perverted by opportunists. When are you people going to wise up?
Living in San Diego and have an 18 yo son who still cannot find an entry level job anywhere. he has even applied to fast food chains despite feeling uncomfortable working there because he was the only non-hispanic english -speaking youth. Now looking for over 13 months. As a result of the constant rejection he has become quit hopeless and depressed. He is a good kid with morals, polite, well-spoken, integrity, clean-cut, and with good grades. He is giving up because he just does not know what to do anymore to get a break.
Opt extension is very important for international students who have technical skills.
I strongly oppose the expanded proposed rule!!!
This OPT extension is very important for both students,employees and employers ,I strongly hope the OPT 24months extension can be approved.
One of the most important reasons leading to US being the most powerful country is diversity. F-1 nonimmigrant students play a critical role in this diversity. Most of the F-1 students (specially with advanced degrees) have solid technology background and are very hard-working. Based on the experience of last few decades, F-1 nonimmigrant students with STEM major indeed did a great contribution to America economics growth specially in technology and engineering fields. They brought creative ideas, developed fancy softwares which are popular in the whole world and inspired US companies about how to do business across the entire world. A great example should be the new Google's CEO Sundar Pichai who leaded the team to develop Google Chrome which not only helped Google earns huge amount of profit but also drove a tremendous increase in US tech industry. As we all know, Sundar was one of the F-1 nonimmigrant students about twenty years ago. The F-1 nonimmigrant students cases also applied to Satya Nadella who is the current CEO of microsoft. Also, improving and expanding the training opportunities won't cut the jobs availabilities of US citizens significantly but this will stimulate American to improve themselves to become more competitive and increase the profits of companies to open more available positions.In conclusion, this suggestion will not only give the F-1 students more time to win the H1B lottery but also will increase the revenue of US companies specially in tech and engineering fields significantly. This is essentially great help to US economics growth.
Americans should be priority for tech jobs or any jobs. Lets not allow the undercutting of wages or people from other countries that are not more qualified for jobs to get those jobs. We have too many unemployed to be allowing our jobs to be given away to others. The only time we should be giving jobs to a foreigner is if we can't find an American to do the job.
Please refer to the attachment
The rule seems nice. Went through the entire rule and felt like it is a win-win game for everyone(Employers, Employees(US and international) and International Students). Hope this will be seen implemented exactly this way in coming months.
I seriously believe that elongate the OPT extension would greatly enhance the input of high tech industry in U.S. This would attract more talented students oversea to come study and contribute to the prosperity of the U.S.A.
This looks like a de facto shadow H-1B program, in violation of Congressional intent.I am opposed to it.
I am writing to request that the proposed changes to this regulation be eliminated.   We need to use our American workers instead of importing foreign workers to take the available jobs.  We have far too many legal and illegal workers in this country now.   If a foreigner chooses to get an education in this country, that is fine (if they pay for it).   However, that should not be a doorway to staying here when the education is completed.
There should be a rule to include master of business administration degree in the extended OPT. There are so many students who have an undergrad in STEM back in their home country ( a conventional 4 year degree in ENGINEERING, MATH, TECHNOLOGY and SCIENCE) . Since MBA does not qualify for the OPT extension ,a lot of bright students with STEM undergrad who are seeking to work as entry level managers in technology companies in US are loosing out in the H1B lottery system. Providing an extended OPT for people with STEM degrees from foreign Universities would help students add value to the US economy.
Simply unbelievable to me that foreign born workers would be given preferential treatment over American workers. Who thinks this up anyway and how is this meant to help American workers. At 50 years old, I was fired from Cummins Engine Co. and replaced with foreign born engineers. I am an excellent engineer, hold two patents, a copyright, and provided documented cost savings to Cummins in excess of $30,000,000.00. I have recently heard from a Cummins engineering manager, that over 75% of the engineers at Cummins are foreign born. My family has been in this country since the 1600's, I have six 4th of 5th great-grandfathers that fought in the Revolutionary War. Harry Truman is a cousin and to think we are treated this way is an abomination.Sincerely,Chip Truman
Hire American citizens for jobs! Stop trying to undercut American workers by giving a bonus to foreign workers.
I would like our government to protect the American people for once.  Stop putting immigrants' interest before our own citizens!
This is definitely  designed to hurt American workers and give financial incentives to hire foreign workers instead of US workers. We don't need this or an increase in H1B workers. I have worked to IT for over 35 years and I know that Americans are NOT given consideration when lower wage foreign workers are available. This results in discrimination and discourages US workers from working in STEM fields.
I believe this new policy will greatly benefit the United States. We need to keep these talented individuals rather than sending them back home to compete against us. They can grow our economy and create more jobs.
This is another example of administration circumvention of the intent of the laws passed by the legislative branch. The initial program was bad enough but the expansion proposed only worsens the opportunity for US citizen STEM employees to find employment.  The labor participation rate is now equal to the late 1970's and this is another program that will lessen it even more and targeted against the younger workers.
The Optional Practical Training program allows U.S. employers to hire foreign students for up to 1 year or up to 29 months in certain fields of study. The program was meant to provide foreign students with on-the-job training that would benefit them when they return to their home countries. Instead, this proposed rule, which will extend the program for STEM students to 36 months, would create a bridge to a longer-term work visa and eventual green card. This is a direct violation of the foreign student's pledge when they received their student visa to leave the country upon graduation. It's hard enough already for American workers, especially recent U.S. graduates, to find work, and this rule would make it even more difficult by adding unnecessary job competition to the mix.    The Department of Homeland Security's proposed rule to expand the Optional Practical Training program amounts to corporate welfare. The proposed rule would extend the amount of time a foreign student can work in the United States from one year to three years. It artificially expands the pool of available workers, allowing employers to depress wages and avoid paying their share of payroll taxes by hiring foreign workers instead of American workers. This rule lines the pockets of greedy business owners at the expense of American workers.    The proposed rule from the Department of Homeland Security to expand the Optional Practical Training program would be a detriment to American tech workers, especially recent college graduates. The program would allow U.S. companies to hire foreign citizens who have been pursuing a degree for at least nine months in the U.S., artificially expanding the pool of available workers for jobs particularly in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics fields. As a result, this would put downward pressure on wages for all tech workers. Furthermore, the program actually incentivizes employers to hire foreign students because they don't have to pay the employer portion of payroll taxes or a prevailing wage. Immigration policy should serve in the interests of American workers, not against it.    I oppose the Department of Homeland Security's proposed rule that would expand the Optional Practical Training program. This expansion would allow U.S. tech companies to hire foreign students for up to 3 years and avoid paying their share of payroll taxes, equivalent to 7.65% of the employee's pay. Not only does this program create an incentive for these companies to hire foreign students over qualified Americans, but it also could violate the foreign student's pledge when they received their F-1 visa to leave the country after completing their degree. With recent college graduates struggling to find work, this is not the time to provide companies with an incentive to hire foreign citizens over U.S. citizens.
This is bad for the American worker.
We are voting to approve the 24 months of stem
It is unconscionable to make it advantageous for US companies to hire foreigners over US workers.OPT is meant to be a temporary training program and not a bridge to long-term work visa or a way for US companies to hire cheaper foreign labor over Americans.OPT workers cost Social Security about $1B a year. This is not  wise for the US.It is wrong for OPT to remove billions of dollars from Social Security and Medicare.There are millions of unemployed/under-employed Americans. US companies need to hire Americans first.OPT is un-American.
This is obviously another attack on the American economy and should not be considered good for the average citizen.Continued abuse of our laws and the intent of same keep the wage of the average worker depressed, and are destroying our country.
This is obviously another attack on the American economy and should not be considered good for the average citizen.Continued abuse of our laws and the intent of same keep the wage of the average worker depressed, and are destroying our country.
<span style="padding-left: 30px"></span>DHS "is neglecting its duty under federal guidance to discuss crucial economic considerations, such as how many OPT workers will be hired instead of American workers; how many STEM grads have given up finding work in the STEM field; how the new rule will affect tech-worker wages and American STEM-grad employment."<span style="padding-left: 30px"></span>"Not only will this artificially expand the domestic labor pool by hundreds of thousands, but 100 percent of the new recruits will be young and therefore cheap, and almost guaranteed to neither unionize nor get poached from competitors (because their 'student' visas will be tied to their employers)."<span style="padding-left: 30px"></span>"because these workers are still technically 'students,' they won't have to pay payroll taxes, saving the company around $10,000 for each of the three years they're in the program."WHEN, WHEN WILL AMERICAN CITIZENS BE PROTECTED BY OUR GOVERNMENT?JUST ANOTHER NASTY CHEAP TRICK PLAY ON AMERICAN CITIZENS.WHEN WILL THIS NONSENSE EVER END?
OPT is meant to be a temporary training program, not as a bridge to a longer-term work visa or a way for employers to hire cheaper foreign labor in lieu of Americans.  We must take care of our own citizens first.  It is amazing to me how President Obama tells students to stay in school when the economy is depressed, and at the same time offer incentives to companies to hire foreigners.  These positions should be available for our people when they finish their educations.
Being a student myself, graduating from MIT and having used the OPT program, I am amazed at how hard US makes from top talent to keep working in the country. USA has one of the most restrictive and unfriendly policies when it comes to hiring talent from foreign students in US universities. I have hundreds of my friends ( phDs, MBAs, scientists from US universities etc) who left the country as they were not able to get a H1B. All of them are doing great elsewhere - only one has lost - the US economy.  It make sense that they would want to restrict people move directly to work here from abroad, but students who have spent hundreds of thousands of dollar and time going through the education process deserve much better.
I support the proposed titled "Improving and Expanding Training Opportunities for F-1 Nonimmigrant Students With STEM Degrees and CapGap Relief for All Eligible F-1 Students". In particular, I strongly agree with the following provisions of the proposed rule:1.<span style="padding-left: 30px"></span>Increasing the total period of the OPT STEM extension to 24 months. Students on a STEM extension are usually hired in specialty occupations. Training a new employee and entrusting them with responsibilities takes a substantial amount of time. If students are to contribute and gain real experience, a longer time period is necessary, and 24 months is appropriate to make a substantial impact, and kickstart a student's career.2.<span style="padding-left: 30px"></span>The safeguards for US workers, and prevailing wage requirements alleviate concerns of STEM OPT students taking over jobs that would otherwise be obtained by US workers.3.<span style="padding-left: 30px"></span>The mentoring and training plan requirements ensures that students will actually be employed by an employer that can provide the required guidance, training, and mentoring that they need during their early career phase.4.<span style="padding-left: 30px"></span>The additional STEM extension is welcome news for students who are interested in working for a few years to gain practical experience before going back to school. The single OPT STEM extension per lifetime rule was overly restrictive, especially since many students go back to earn a higher degree level, and continue to contribute to the industry.5.<span style="padding-left: 30px"></span>School accreditation and site visits are crucial to ensure that students don't simply enroll in unaccredited schools with lax enrollment guidelines for the sole objective of obtaining work authorization.6.<span style="padding-left: 30px"></span>Increasing the allowed period of unemployment to 150 days is a welcome relief, since the job search process is extremely stressful, unpredictable, and time consuming.This rule provides substantial economic, academic, and cultural benefits to the United States, as specified in section IV. C. of the proposed rule. As stated in section IV. C. 2, it is important for the US to continue retaining high skilled foreign graduates ahead of other countries that may prove to be more viable destinations if the legal immigration system in the US proves to be too restrictive, cumbersome, or otherwise unfriendly to high skilled foreign graduates.While the rule makes some good proposals, we would also appreciate clarity on the following topics of contention:1.<span style="padding-left: 30px"></span>The effects of a final rule not being in place by Feb. 13, 2016 on students who already have approved STEM extensions.2.<span style="padding-left: 30px"></span>Whether a higher degree in a non STEM field is grounds for a second 24 months STEM extension.Finally, I also suggest that students who have been on the OPT extension for a period of time be considered dual intent, and file for a green card without it having negative repercussions on future F1 visa applications.Sincerely,Anurag Bhatt
Stop all Visa extensions.  The USA has millions unemployed/underemployed STEM workers.  Allowing visa extensions depresses wages and keeps new college graduates from even getting jobs.  My own daughter has a Biology degree and was forced to take an admin job because of unfettered immigration and the importing of foreign workers.
I believe the expansion of the F-1 non-immigrant students with stem degrees is a very bad idea for a large number of Americans. The Center for Immigration studies indicates that 430,000 Americans were unable to find work between 2009 and 2013  due to the existing program for these F-1 students. Also, because these students were not Americans, Medicare and Social Security lost out on collecting approximately four billion dollars during this same time period. Both of these programs are in severe need. Why exacerbate it? If the idea is to be more competitive, then we should focus on providing American college graduates in stem fields every opportunity to find work. Not drive them away from it due to favoritism to foreign nationals. So it seems, this proposed rule will hurt the young and old alike. It will make it more difficult for a college graduate to find work, and it will hurt retired Americans. How is this a good thing if we are concerned about middle class Americans in any way shape or form. There must be some select set of individuals who would benefit greatly from this. I am not referring to the foreign nationals, but to rich and influential Americans.
I think it's a good news. Expanding Training Opportunities is good for the company and the students, which can provide more training to the students while the company can create more profit through the new graduate students. Although some people may think this policy would increase unemployment rate of the citizen, in fact the majority of unemployment is not the market that F-1 students focus on.
As the President has highlighted the importance of knowledge based sectors to the economy, it is highly imperative that the polices and regulations are consistent with his thoughts. International students majoring in STEM have huge potential in contributing to the economy. The OPT STEM is a perfect program to realize it. Economists have reported time and again the benefits these highly skilled individuals bring to the native population. They are more likely to start a business and generate jobs, they work in high tech industries that are at the forefront of innovations. In short, they help in keeping the US economy at the front. These students bring business to the economy in terms of tuition and living expenditure to the universities and municipals. At times when college enrollment for native population is at an all time low, these students fill in the void and make sure that these institutions of higher learning are afloat.I fully support the expansion of the STEM OPT program from the current 29 to 36 months. As the DHS mentioned in its draft rule, it should provide guidance if at all the rule making process is not completed before February 12th, 2016.   The executive action is indeed a temporary measure to solve the impact of our broken immigration system. At the same time, I request the DHS to advocate and continuously press the legislature to pass common sense immigration laws.
What gives the federal government the right promote discrimination against its citizens and steal their labor "for the good of the nation"?Back in 2007 I was forced, through workplace harassment, to resign a position I had for over 10 years so a recent foreign graduate could remain in the U.S.  The work was not STEM at all.  It was web development for an insurance company's marketing division.I'm called a myth by politicians like Schumer who doesn't represent me and denigrates me as a "privileged elite" not deserving of any rights.I'd like an explanation why I shouldn't view the federal government as a terrorist group pursuing their own throat-cutting agenda.  It certainly took more from me than any ISIS member I'm supposed to view as the enemy ever did.
I strongly support this proposal. Extending STEM OPT to 24 months will surely benefits both international students and large companies.
This rule will be a big relief for all who have F1 visa...it will be open options for them and also for companies. I strongly support this rule.
This is essential for United states to attract foreign students to pursue higher education in America. This is a significant advantage that United states has over Europe which makes it a suitable location to pursue further education for students especially from the developing nations. I would recommend making this OPT extension 36 months to give the students time to properly apply their education and making foreign students a viable candidate for companies who are looking to hire young people with passion and expertise in their field of study.
This OPT Program must not be expanded. It should be ended completely.  It is taking American jobs and giving them to foreign nationals at the expense of American workers.  Further, it is robbing the Social Security System and Medicare System of needed income tax revenues.  What idiot thought this was a good idea to begin with?  It must end!
Please stop the OPT program extension as this is a terrible overreach of our government.
It's a great news for student in the OPT period and hope this proposal could be passed.
Extending STEM optional practical training to total of 3 years definitely helps a lot to both applicants themselves but also big companies in US. Applicants can gain more experience related to their major and contribute their part to US companies to get stronger with the up to date knowledge from school. This new policy will attract more genius from all over the world to America I do believe.
American employers are all ready abusing this program to the detriment of American workers.  Just look at what Disney is doing to American workers as one example of the abuses that are all ready occurring.  America cannot afford this de facto run around of our immigration laws.  It's time to put American workers first, not big business and the Chamber of Commerce who desire cheap labor, free from obamacare taxes and payroll taxes, over American workers.  I agree with and concur with the following statements and quotes from Senator Charles Grassley:Senator Charles Grassley of Iowa (in a letter to President Obama):"By increasing the total amount of time a foreign student may work in OPT after each degree to 3 years - the same amount of time that an H-1B visa would be valid - there is little doubt that the Administration has administratively established a de facto shadow H-1B program, in violation of Congressional intent."the proposed regulations are "irresponsible and dangerous considering the Government Accountability Office (GAO) report issued in March 2014 finding that the program was full of inefficiencies, susceptible to fraud, and that the Department was not adequately overseeing it.""The report also found a major national security problem in that the Department does not know where tens of thousands of foreign students are living and working in the country. The GAO said that 'ICE cannot fully ensure foreign students working under optional practical training are maintaining their legal status in the United States.'""After the GAO issued its report in 2014, I wrote to you and urged you to consider issuing a moratorium on OPT approvals until the program was secured and students could be located. I also asked that the Department swiftly move to implement the GAO's recommendations. The Director of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, Alejandro Mayorkas, responded on your behalf to my letter. He said the Department concurred with the recommendations and was working on them. I would like to know the status of each GAO recommendation, whether they have been fully implemented, and if not, why not.""OPT is meant to be a temporary training program, not as a bridge to a longer-term work visa or a way for employers to hire cheaper foreign labor in lieu of Americans."John Miano, attorney representing tech workers:the proposed rule effectively "requires employers and universities to engage in unlawful immigration status discrimination.""The rule requires these organizations to set up mentoring programs for foreign graduates to work under OPT. However, there is no requirement that American graduates receive the same benefit."David North, formerly of the U.S. Labor Department:"there is no training in this program. It is just one more foreign worker program and it has nothing to do with students; it is for recent alien college graduates.""U.S. employers are given a substantial bonus for hiring an alien college grad rather than an American college grad with the same skills and the same salary...it can be above $10,000.""DHS, by defining a recent college grad as a student, takes both the worker and the employer out from under payroll taxes -- thus penalizing the Social Security and Medicare trust funds directly, and our elders indirectly.""If the bonus given to employers for hiring a STEM graduate is worth $10,000 under the old rules, it is now worth $12,000, and is that much more likely to cause an employer to hire a former F-1 student than a green card or citizen graduate."
I am a foreign national currently working under the STEM OPT 17 month extension. I got my masters degree in Engineering from a large public university. I learnt a great deal during my schooling in the US and had the good fortune to be taught by world renowned scientists. I remember towards the end of my degree, I along with few other grad students and post-docs were attending a meeting to review recent research results from a visiting professors lab. We had unending questions about the results and were politely but relentlessly questioning the visiting professor. My professor proudly pointed to us and said to the visiting professor "look at how critical these young researchers are of the material you presented, they don't accept the material at face value and have learned to think like scientists". I realized at that moment that slowly, without even realizing it, under the careful, critical and tireless tutelage of my professors, my mind had finally opened and begun to process information like a scientists' should. After graduating, I applied for the OPT visa and started working at a company that manufactures very complex scientific equipment. My master's thesis was based on this equipment and this role provided me the opportunity to understand more about the physics, applications and inner workings of this technology. I know for a fact that I had not displaced any US citizens by taking up my current job and this position was open for months before I applied and was hired. My educational background, engineering skills and aptitude have proven to be very valuable for the company I work for and I have been a highly contributing employee thus far.  I have had very supportive and experienced mentors who have continuously trained and guided me. I have learnt more working alongside my fellow engineers than I could have learnt in a university setting. Moreover many of the soft skills that I picked up at my job are the foundation of having a successful lifelong career in engineering. I learned to apply my skills in an environment where teamwork, dealing with customers, collaborators and outside competition was just as important as getting the right answers. Having the 12 months OPT and 24 months STEM extension in my opinion is absolutely crucial for engineering roles where technologies evolve so quickly that what is learned in universities is outdated by the time we graduate. Internships do help in getting some practical experience but to become an effective engineer we need to be involved in developing enterprise scale projects which take years of continuous effort. Internships generally provide opportunities to work on small projects that can be completed in 3-6 months.Unfortunately my 17 month OPT period ends in mid-December and it seems unlikely that the 24 month STEM extension rule would be finalized before then. I urge you to please consider allowing students who have recently completed their 17 month STEM extension and are currently in their 60 day grace period to apply for the balance 7 months extension. Though I have learnt a great deal about one instrument, my training is still incomplete and I have not even begun to get trained on the highly complex equipment we supply to synchrotron labs around the world. This rule would provide students like me an invaluable opportunity to complete projects we started working on years ago. Though I have learnt a great deal about one instrument, my training is still incomplete and I have not even begun to work on the highly complex equipment we supply to synchrotron labs around the world. If I had to suddenly leave, my company would have to scramble to hire someone in my place. The projects I am working on could be delayed for months before someone with suitable skills and experience can be found and brought up to speed. This rule would provide students like me an invaluable opportunity to complete projects we started working on years ago. Many thanks for your time and consideration.
As an engineer I work a lot with those who have come from a foreign country and received education in the US. As a major workforce of technology industry, their contributions are undeniable. I think this is a great proposal that shows the US values, openness and equal opportunities. I don't see they get the jobs because they are 'cheaper', while they actually fill the huge manpower gap in STEM fields. This expanding policy would definitely benefit technology industries as well as education.
Is Obama out of his mind, visas for more people to come take what little jobs out there from Americans, good grief, he has lost the mind he never had , one bad decision after another , and Americans are paying the price,
On first blush this seems to be a good idea. However it is not orking as planed! The foreighn student decides that instead of returning home? it would be better for him or her to remain in the USA. They stay and another USA CITIZEN becomes unemployed and goes on welfare. result of a good? idea gone wrong. Now cost of training and education of foreighn student brings about another USAcitizen increasing our cost of operation. If your are going to train the foreighn student , FORCEthem to return to their own country and NOTbe able to return to the USA. THINK about what you are doing.  Please think of USAfirst.  I am a WW2 combat veteran. Did Igo wrong to volunteer ???!!!!
Dear Thomas Hayden,I am not sure what situation provoked you like this and blaming entire Indian Graduates in US. You have to understand first, American Top Companies like Google, Microsoft, Adobe, Pepsi are all running under Indian born CEO's who graduated over here and there are N numbers who contributed to Silicon Valley. We paid back to US much more than we received. If you get a chance, I would personally advice you go and interview each CEO's of big MNC and ask them about our work ethics. Then you will come to know who we are. But don't say we faked our exams, faked resume, faked the job. If this all true, then why Top Companies still hire lot of Indian Graduates. And also , I can see that, you said we can't even speak proper English. But I like to clarify this, no university in US will select a candidate unless until he/she cleared TOEFL/IELTS English Exam. Please check the statistics , Indian population tops in speaking English than any other Asian Countries.Overall, Please don't underestimate the talent of Indian Graduates in US.
If the reported numbers were honest  unemployment would be more like 10 percent.  Importing workers who would be willing to accept less than prevailing wages in the industry &amp; position is wrong.  Having lost 2 jobs 'off-shoring', this is no better.
F.L. Hinchey1424 Holly Ridge DrKeller, TXIt is without logic to allow additional persons to enter the US as workers in the face of releasing former prison inmates who will need jobs to prevent re-incarceration as well as the demand for employment for US citizens who are completing school to prepare them for some of those same available positions.   If you truly represent the people who elected you to public office, pay your salary and perks, as well as provide for your retirement, the least that could be expected is for you to protect the job opportunities available in the US for these  individuals and their offspring who supported your election.
This is a request that the Department of Homeland Security is NOT allowed to expand Optional Practical Training program.  Originally, the program was for foreign students who planned to return home upon completion of their training.  Now, many stay.  This has caused 430,000 jobs lost by US students in the 2009 - 2013 time period at a cost of $4 billion to Social Security and Medicare funds.  If hired, employers save money because they do not have to pay FICA and Medicare taxes on these non-citizens.Please do not allow expansion of this program.
This plan by DHS categorizes the foreign student/employee in such a way that exempts them from payroll taxes. There is not a shortage of qualified American workers in STEM fields. Giving employers a disincentive to hire American workers is unfair.The Economic Policy Institute found that there are plenty of Americans with and without degrees who are qualified to fill these STEM jobs.Like other employment visa programs, the Optional Practical Training program works to lower wages and living standards of the middle class. If workers with such training are needed, why isnt the program for American students instead? OPT denied American workers more than 430,000 jobs during the years 2009-2103 and OPT removed $4billion from Social Security and Medicare trust funds. OPT=working against Americans
This is a good rule that needs to be passed very beneficial for retaining talented international students. I support this !!!
I strongly support this proposal base on the following opinions:1. Benefits to the U.S. economy.U.S. has been the #1 country in the world for years, and one of the main reasons of this success is because of its diversity.Ever since the Industrial Revolution in the 18th century, technology innovation has become a key factor of determining a countrys place in the world, and U.S. sure grabbed this gist. This country draws talented people in by its world-class working and living environment, and pay them back with its welcoming and open mind. It brings people from different parts of the world and cultures together to do great things. There are immigrants contributing to almost every industry: IT, space exploration, military, movie, medical field, etc., and a lot of them are on the top of their respective fields. To draw more talented people in and make this country stay competitive, extending OPT extension period for STEM students sure is a good way to provide more opportunities for international students to find a job and transit to H1-B visa in order to use the knowledge they learned from U.S. universities and contribute back to this country.According to a 2012 report from the Information Technology Industry Council(http://www.renewoureconomy.org/sites/all/themes/pnae/stem-report.pdf), the Partnership for a New American Economy, and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, research has found that every foreign-born student who graduates from a U.S. university with an advanced degree and stays to work in STEM has been shown to create on average 2.62 jobs for American workersoften because they help lead in innovation, research, and development., and this report only shows the value and job opportunities STEM students had been creating until 2012. In fact, according to another report(http://www.renewoureconomy.org/sites/all/themes/pnae/img/new-american-fortune-500-june-2011.pdf), immigrants were founders of 18 percent of all Fortune 500 companies, many of which are high-tech giants. As of 2010, these companies generated $1.7 trillion in annual revenue, employed 3.6 million workers worldwide, and included well known companies like AT&amp;T, Verizon, Google, United States Steel, Nordstrom, and so on. The value that STEM students have been and will be bringing to the U.S. economy and workforce is tremendous.(Reference: http://www.immigrationpolicy.org/just-facts/always-demand-economic-contributions-immigrant-scientists-and-engineers)2. Benefits to the daily lives of American citizens.First and most important of all, STEM students create more job opportunities. More and more native-born workers get jobs and the ability to live a better life, which leads to a more health and stable society. As the growth of STEM related industries, other non-STEM industries will also experience a business booming caused by this growth. For example, the Yelp mobile app created a more direct way for information exchanging between businesses and customers and has been benefiting billions of businesses. In todays technology world, the influence of STEM industries are unignorable.In a smaller picture, the influence of the growth of STEM related industries to our lives is obvious. They make our daily activities easier and do the things that could only be seen in Sci-Fi movies 50 years ago. Google Map, Tesla electric car, Yelp, Uber, those innovations have become so close to our lives that we cannot even imagine how people in the 80th live without these technologies. It has been a true life-changing experience thanks to the booming of STEM industries.Last but not least, STEM students make America a truly multicultural society. In this very land of freedom, people has a chance to be friends with people from other part of the world, try different food, learn different cultures. It is not only what makes this country attractive for talented people from all over the world, but also how it becomes the #1 country in the world, and STEM students are a very important part of it.3. Benefits to STEM students.STEM students are eager to find a job in the U.S. after graduating from school. U.S. is the headquarter of innovations. Gaining industry-leading work experience could benefit their career and enhance businesses between U.S. and their home country. But as more and more STEM students coming in every year, the chance of winning the H1-B lottery becomes less and less. This leaves a lot of talented people no choice but go home. Extending OPT-Extension period could give them more chances to win the lottery and keep serving this country. For those highly competitive majors, this proposal could give those good-standing candidates more time to find a job so that their talent could have enough time to be discovered, and the companies could choose from best of the best.In conclusion, I think this proposal is a win-win for both U.S. government and STEM students. Therefore I strongly support it.
This program, according to information that I have received, has raided Social Security (2009-2013; plus may be the current situation) taking 1 billion dollars per year for a program that does not benefit Seniors.  As a senior, I feel that this has affected me personally.  The federal government took my personal money while I worked telling me that this money would be there when I needed it as a senior.  Now, the monies are being taken for something that I did not authorize nor will benefit me.  The federal government has robbed, has not been a good steward of the monies given, is giving away my money, and has created future problems for me and other seniors because of this action.  This is criminal action.  If a bank robber came into a bank and robbed money, the person(s) would go to jail and suffer the consequences.  Robbery of seniors, of which I am one, plus squandering of the monies is a total disservice to those who have given into Social Security no matter how lofty, eloquent, and technical you state your goals and aspirations to help "students".  My personal recommendation is that this and any similar program that takes money from Seniors ought to be completely dissolved.  The monies taken from Social Security need to be restored to their proper owners.
Surely the government of the United States is not trying to put non-citizens ahead of US Citizens by making it more profitable for companies to hire non-citizens.This would be illegal, unconstitutional, and not moral.
I support this new rule because it greatly helps the country to retain talents, encourage students to create values, innovate, and make use of what they learned from their degrees.
Support. This new rule will bring more talents into United States.It would be better if the extension is the same for students with STEM degrees and non-STEM degrees.
I strongly support the opt extension regulation. For one aspect, it benefit high-technology startups and companies as more highly-educated employees can contribute their knowledge in the technology field. In another aspect, they can generate more tax income for the government and accelerate the development of technology.
I am a co-founder of a tech startup in NYC. Nowadays it is extremely challenging to find qualified software engineers without considering international candidates. So far this year, my company's recruitment costs alone consumed about 30% of our seed fund. In the current market, companies need to pay a lot to recruit high quality programming talents to fill open positions in under six months. There are simply not enough qualified candidates in the existing job market. I don't see the point of further shrinking the candidate pool when it is already small if this proposal does not pass. There are about 7 people in our 30-person tech team who are on OPT/H1B and to be honest it would be a devastation to my company if I have to let all 7 of them go in February 2016. I read some of the comments here and frankly I don't understand why people keep mentioning the Disney example and saying that this program will take jobs from American citizens. The technology industry is very different than the old D's. Generally speaking, technology companies hire engineers and scientists, and through the products that they make, more jobs will be created. Hiring any engineer would help the U.S. economy. Take my company's business model as example, by successfully hiring a software engineer, regardless of whether or not they are a U.S. citizen, we can add more new features to our product. With new features and innovative products we can hire more salespeople, marketing people and tech support engineers to market and provide support to our customers. I cannot fathom why others are commenting that these engineers are taking American citizens' jobs. As far as I can see, they are creating more jobs for Americans. It is a simple win-win policy. I believe strengthening this STEM OPT extension program would create a constant stream of jobs in America. As long as STEM students are working in the innovation industries, they are bringing jobs in associated industries. The pros to our economy of maintain the STEM OPT extension program outweigh the cons. If this program is indeed terminated in February, it will not only strike my job-creating, tax-paying and economy-contributing company but many others as well. I don't mind going back to my previous job in Silicon Valley to make a decent salary. But it would be unwise to not let my international employees help with my company and the American economy.
I strongly support this extension. From personal perspective, the reason I choose US to study is US offers a longer period of training time. Also, those who think they cannot find a job because of international students are just not competitive enough. International students are just a tiny portion of people in US and would not affect US market by much.
vote for this
Our American students and young people have the highest unemployment rate in history, and, young black American citizens have the highest rate of unemployment ever recorded.   You have more American families on government assistance than ever in our history;  we must get financially responsible, and make the changes necessary to rectify this fact before we help anyone else or continue the debt spiral track we are on currently.  If we cannot get our debt under control, we cannot help anyone else in the world.  Please stop and think for a minute about what American citizens need first so we can be in a position to help others.    The FOIA request from the Center for Immigration Studies revealed two disgusting facts about the OPT program that DHS proposes to expand;  1.  you are denying unemployed  American workers more than 430,000 jobs during the years 2009-2013 while telling us everything is great, I can assure you it is not;  we have the lowest labor participation rate in 30 years, Americans don't work we can help no one else help themselves.  And, 2. the program removed $4 billion from the Social Security and Medicare trust funds when everyone is now aware both programs are a financial disaster for our country and the programs were a big cost lie when they were started, just like ACA.  We simply cannot afford to help everyone in the world without Americans getting back to work.    I believe your hearts are in the right place, but the timing is not good for our country;  I believe delaying and suspending all non-critical programs should be the rule.  Until we have our debts paid and our unfunded liabilities fully funded with a balanced budget, suspending this program is in the best interest of our country, so we will be in a position again in the future to help more people from other countries. Thank you so much for the opportunity to voice my opposition.
I strongly support this rule as this would be beneficial for both Students and US. I really appreciate if US govt. pass this proposed rule. It will benefit economically and technically.
An eviction of American educated foreign scientists, engineers, and mathematicians would create a brain drain that seems counter-intuitive in the pursuit of maintaining American global leadership in technology and sciences. Industry professionals and graduate students who have honed in on their areas of expertise would be forced to take their knowledge that they have developed during their time here back to their respective country of origins. It would be highly advantageous to retain qualified and productive members of society that contribute to a healthy economy and work in fields that create new job opportunities for our American counterparts.
I totally support this rule to extend the STEM OPT extension from 17 months to 24 months due to the following reasons.1)Around 900,000 international students studied in US colleges and universities during the 2013-14 school year which contributed almost $27 billion dollars to the U.S. economy. If this rule is not passed the number of students coming to study in U.S. will drastically decline and will be a great loss to the U.S. economy2)Also the jobs for which STEM students apply for are available for every one U.S. nationals as well as International students. So its a fair opportunity for every one. On the other hand there are many jobs for which only U.S. nationals can apply, so this gives them more opportunities over STEM students.3)There is currently a shortage of people with degree in STEM fields in U.S.. If this rule is not passed most of the international students would have to go back to their respective country. and U.S. might have to outsource the work the other countries.Thus to avoid a big impact on U.S. economy and for the betterment of the STEM students I support this rule.
The extension for the OPT is ennormously important to F1 students with STEM degrees and would have positive effect on international students' willingness to come to study in the US.
F-1 non immigrant students come here to better their academic value by pursuing higher degrees in their interested  STEM field of study very rigorously. The advance research facilities and faculty of the many universities in the United States attract such students to add value to their academic career but all this will be in vain if they are not given a chance to get exposed to practical training in the American Industry to apply their knowledge and expand their horizon by adhering to the global work culture which is seen here in every industry and this training should be given ample time for them to progress and apply their knowledge successfully. Extending and improving training opportunities for non immigrant students must be made mandatory taking due regard to such students' voices to advance their career effectively in the future because theoretical skills are wasted otherwise if not given a chance to apply practically for everyday problems for finding cutting edge solutions and such training platforms are not present in the third world countries from which most of such students come from. So in my opinion the concerned authorities must consider improving and expanding training opportunities with STEM degrees for all eligible F-1 students.
General Facts About The Optional Practical Training Program (OPT):The original purpose of Optional Practical Training was to give foreign students extra tools to help their home countries when they returned but today it is more often used by foreign students as a bridge to stay in the U.S., and by employers to get around the H-1B cap. DHS' proposed rule runs counter to the original purpose of the OPT program.There are approximately 568,000 F-1 students in the U.S. in addition to 98,000 in 12-month OPT programs and 30,000 in 29-month OPT programs. Giving employers incentive to hire from this giant pool of workers undermines the job opportunities for American STEM workers.OPTs are sought after by employers because they tend to be younger (cheaper) than their American competitors. Employers save 7.65 percent when they hire foreign students instead of US workers because they don't pay FICA or Medicare taxes under the OPT program. OPT workers often hold jobs in the $60-$90,000 a year range, but they cost Social Security about $1 billion dollars a year.All of this hurts American citizens directly, NOW and in the FUTURE.
Please extend OPT for 24 months atleast which helps in building our career.  I am ready to help US in some development.
i have a dream,to get laid with emma roberts,so i stay.
Big YES! Go for it.
You should be ashamed to even consider offering to pay employer's American's tax dollars for putting aliens to work over Americans!
Glad to see this happen. International stem students are an important part. They are professional, experienced engineers and work hard for the country. The government should be better to them.
It is beneficial for companies to hire more extraordinary people to contribute to American society.
This rule will increase the amount of highly skilled workforce available to companies in need of STEM workers. These workers help companies innovate in various areas, and also benefit the economy.The rule in no way encourages shifting jobs market to foreign workers. Since the companies are paying the same salary to foreign workers as US citizens, there is no incentive for companies to favor foreign workers over domestic workers. In contrast, the rule can actually encourage creating more job positions by providing a viable visa solution for foreign citizens to run startup companies. This is not only good for innovation and economy, but also creates job positions for both domestic workers and foreign workers.Thus, I believe the rule will be beneficial to the US and people who live in US, and highly support this rule.
Nowadays, Silicon Valley is a critical strength to drive American's economy. No matter it is Google, Apple, or Facebook, there are a lot of STEM students, those students are making huge contribution to those technology company, at the same time, these company provides lots of job opportunities for United States Citizens. So I think it is a great proposal that we can give 24 month extension for STEM students.
When is our government going to work for the people that pay the taxes?  My daughter is in charge of a non-resident alien tax program at a university....the money spent on these programs is astronomical.  My idea of government is one that benefits its citizens that not that of special interests that press for these programs.  American business needs to start saving America from destruction by using American workers and not looking outside the country for those that will work for lower pay thus increasing pay for the top echelon.  Does the American government listen to their citizens...my answer is a resounding no...they do what they want and are not affected by the consequences.
Strongly in favor of increasing the opt/cpt duration. Also, an increase in cap of h1 quota for f1 should be included too.
I agree with the proposal to extend STEM OPT to be 24 months. It would be beneficial to both students and American employers.
I strongly support this new rule. It's getting harder for international students to obtain work visas. Thus this new rule ensures international students to have more time applying for work visas while working for US companies. This benefits both international students and US companies.
I got a green card as part of the E11 program. This is available to any well qualified graduate of outstanding ability. This is the only kind of graduate student the US needs. The others have mediocre qualifications and contribute little that US graduates do, except for lowering salaries. The IEEE and other professional bodies have campaigned against the H1B cap and this program is a work around H1B fix typical of this dishionest administration. If there really was a STEM shortage STEM salaries would be higher but they aren't.Don't listen to the foreign students who have flooded the comments section here. They are not American citizens or legal residents and their opinions should not count as much. Every country has a duty to put its citizens first.
The current situation in the high tech industry throughout the US is already overrun by foreign nationals flooding our job market with low capability, low pay candidates that keep qualified Americans from fairly completing for the jobs that are available.  Large corporations already get government incentives and benefits and for taking advantage of this low cost external labor source at the expense of the Americans that are fully qualified for these positions.  This change will further dilute the talent market and drive the reasonable cost for these skills lower and lower.  The only winners are Corporate monsters that eagerly sell out American workers for a few more dollars of profit.  Government policies should be focused on protecting the American work force rather than facilitating its continued destruction.
I totally support this proposed rule of extending OPT extension to 24 months. That way, STEM student will have longer time to work in the U.S and make much larger contributions to this country. First, the U.S, in order to develop economy, needs large amounts of people with STEM background, and merely hiring U.S citizens or permanent residents are far from enough: there are still large gaps needed to be filled. The foreign student are just the right person to do this. Second, these highly educated people are precious resources to the U.S. Foreign student who can achieve STEM degree in U.S are all excellent in their own countries. If OPT EXTENSION is extended, they will have more chances to stay here and make more contributions to America. The U.S only spends couple of years to nurture them, but they bring back much more value.Third, they are very diligent. It's hard for STEM students to compete with citizens, so they must be more sedulous and much less picky about jobs. That makes them spare no effort to provide high quality work to make sure they stay in the companies. Finally, they will not threat the chances of citizens. The economy of the U.S is recovering and the need for work force in STEM major is larger than citizen. And OPT EXTENSION only includes STEM majors, the citizens concentrates more on majors like literature, economy, art, etc. So foreign student will only be a great supplement to the need. In sum, I am positive this proposal will benefit the U.S not just in short term but strategically in long run. Thank you for reading!
That's awesome!!! Can'be more excited to hear about this news!Hope the proposal will be passed as soon as possible!
Regarding to: Docket No. ICEB-2015-0002Argument for Expanding Training Opportunities for F-1 Nonimmigrant Students With STEM Degrees and CapGap Relief for All Eligible F-1 Students1) Creating Jobs for American Job markets, please refers to http://www.immigrationpolicy.org/just-facts/immigration-reform-and-job-growth2) F-1 students, who are applying for STEM extension,  are people who supporting competitively enterprise in the States, who taxes them a lot.3) Your great president, Roosevelt, is immigrant. Please refer to the document: "His parents were sixth cousins[7] and both were from wealthy old New York families. They were of mostly English descent; Roosevelt's patrilineal great-grandfather, Jacobus Roosevelt III, was of Dutch ancestry, and his mother's maiden name, Delano, could be traced to a French Huguenot immigrant ancestor of the 17th century"4) Applicants who are eligible for OPT, are high-degrees employees. They are the long-term competitive source of the states, please refer to the Roosevelt/Regan's reform which introduce the act/policy to build the foundation and infrastructure, which lays the foundation of prosperity of the states today.5) Short-term vision of not welcoming talents, is making the united states, to become the irrelevant  and no longer leader in the world.
There are so many people who are AMERICAN CITIZENS in the IT field who have been put out of a job when their employers hired cheaper foreign workers.<span style="padding-left: 30px"></span>My friend had to train his replacement at CISCO before he was fired.   He has been unemployed or under-employed now for several years.Our son studied computers and IT in high school.   He was planning to continue his IT studies in college or technical school, but we successfully talked him out of it!   Why?  Because there is no future for American Citizens in this field.  It would be a dead end.  He could make a similar amount of money as a manager at a fast food restaurant, and not have to pay for additional schooling.   If he studied IT in college, he would have to compete with third world workers who are thrilled to come to the U.S. and make $35,000, because of the other benefits of living here, and because of chain migration policies, they can bring their entire extended family.This program is just a government subsidy for Big Businesses who want to import cheap labor, so they don't have to pay American Citizens a living wage.This program should be ended.  Certainly not expanded.P.S.  WHY does the personal information of the commenter, include a huge drop down menu to pick the commentor's country??   You are asking foreign citizens to comment on U.S. Government policy?
I strongly support this rule and I have so many reasons for everyone to support this rule.I am an American citizen working as a technology manager with one of the leading software company. 80% people in our research team are STEM graduates across the world. In our technology team we have 50% STEM graduates. In our development team we have 40% international STEM graduates. If this rule is not issued then all this people have to go back to their country. Because of this we have to shut down our company and if that happens then around 3000 American citizens working in our company are going to loose their jobs. The same thing will happen in around 10,000 tech companies in all over USA. This rule is not taking away any job from us. In face because of this rule more and more jobs are being created for American citizen with our without degree in STEM field. I have seen so many comments saying that this rule is taking away jobs from stem degree graduates in USA but it is totally wrong. I request all those guys to go and check their figures. Just go online and check number of job openings for engineers in companies like Microsoft, Amazon, google, facebook, Yahoo, Bloomberg etc. All  these jobs are created because all this companies are growing really really fast and the reason these companies are growing because they have international STEM graduates in their team.STEM graduates are creating more and more jobs for everyone. Please issue this rule so that they can stay longer in this country and contribute towards growth of this country
This is very good aspects for enhancing the american Higher education system and developing a talent pool in the country to work for development of technologies and Research work. By this practical training opportunity not only foreign students get to learn the practical aspects of the course work they have studied in the school, it also helps the companies to build a strong research based relation with School. With this Practical training opportunity a  whole new pool of talented student force can be build who can not only help in building american economy but also contribute to growth and betterment of Research &amp; Technology in the country. By Far STEM coursework in United states is best in the world and that is the reason it attracts so many foreign students and by this training opportunity, we can groom the good students to be best and contribute towards growth of corporate sector as well as America higher education system. This is win win situation for both.
This is very good aspects for enhancing the american Higher education system and developing a talent pool in the country to work for development of technologies and Research work. By this practical training opportunity not only foreign students get to learn the practical aspects of the course work they have studied in the school, it also helps the companies to build a strong research based relation with School. With this Practical training opportunity a  whole new pool of talented student force can be build who can not only help in building american economy but also contribute to growth and betterment of Research &amp; Technology in the country. By Far STEM coursework in United states is best in the world and that is the reason it attracts so many foreign students and by this training opportunity, we can groom the good students to be best and contribute towards growth of corporate sector as well as America higher education system. This is win win situation for both.
The OPT extension is beneficial for both students and the United States. A lot of talented foreign students will be able to sharpen their techniques and gain more knowledge and experience, which makes them valuable asset to the company and stimulate the economy of the States. Moreover, the better and more qualified professionals, such as engineer, physicists, with the extended training time from the OPT extension will most likely create more products whether those are physical or intellectual leading to more profit for the company and stimulate the economy of the country.
<span style="padding-left: 30px"></span>I get very annoyed at our government when they are constantly trying to help workers from other countries and they ignore American workers.  Many companies let American workers go so that they can hire foreign worker for less money.  Many  American engineers  and other American STEM workers in their 50's find their jobs are being given to foreign workers before they reach the age of retirement.  THIS HURTS AMERICANS!  I get companies want to be profitable but I think it is a crime to allow more and more foreign workers in at the EXPENSE of the American worker.  Something is incredibly wrong when a country's government cares less about its people but breaks all rules and laws to allow the foreign worker to come here to go to school or work while laying off the American!   <span style="padding-left: 30px"></span>I have two teen children and I worry about their future because as we struggle to get them into college and pay for it, our government is allowing more and more foreign students and workers in; so will their be jobs for our young Americans?  Does this administration care about our future workers?   Do they  care about any American?  Even Republicans seem to put the American worker on the back burner as everyone pushes for more help from foreign workers.  Also as colleges take more foreign students does that put American students at a disadvantage to getting in to the same school?Our government should put the American student first in front of foreign students and it should put the American worker ahead of the foreign workers!  No 50 something American should lose their job so that a company can benefit from hiring foreign workers.  It is morally wrong and it is very un American!Do not give the foreign student or the foreign worker more time or more opportunities than you do the same American student or American worker!It is past time to put American's first!
I strongly oppose this expansion of the rules that favor hiring foreigners over American workers.  In this bad economy with so many American citizens out of work, the LAST thing that our government should be doing is encouraging companies to hire foreigners and permitting these foreigners to stay beyond their legal visa limits.  Our government is supposed to be acting in the interest of American citizens, not large companies that want cheap foreign workers!
I oppose the Department of Homeland Security's proposed rule that would expand the Optional Practical Training program. This expansion would allow U.S. tech companies to hire foreign students for up to 3 years and avoid paying their share of payroll taxes, equivalent to 7.65% of the employee's pay. Not only does this program create an incentive for these companies to hire foreign students over qualified Americans, but it also could violate the foreign student's pledge when they received their F-1 visa to leave the country after completing their degree. With recent college graduates struggling to find work, this is not the time to provide companies with an incentive to hire foreign citizens over U.S. citizens. Not only that, as one of those who has faithfully paid taxes all of my adult life so that American children could get advanced degrees and better jobs than I have had and saved what I could of what was left after paying those taxes, in case my own children needed help to succeed, I highly resent it that these foreign freeloaders would go to the head of the line against equally well-qualified Americans because the government that is pledged to protect them has betrayed them instead!
A Freedom of Information Act request from the Center for Immigration Studies revealed two shocking takeaways about the OPT program that DHS proposes to expand:OPT denied American workers more than 430,000 jobs during the years 2009-2013; andOPT removed $4 billion from the Social Security and Medicare trust funds.OPTs are sought after by employers because they tend to be younger (cheaper) than their American competitors. Employers save 7.65 percent when they hire foreign students instead of US workers because they don't pay FICA or Medicare taxes under the OPT program. OPT workers often hold jobs in the $60-$90,000 a year range, but they cost Social Security about $1 billion dollars a year.
The proposed rule from the Department of Homeland Security to expand the Optional Practical Training program would be a detriment to American tech workers, especially recent college graduates. The program would allow U.S. companies to hire foreign citizens who have been pursuing a degree for at least nine months in the U.S., artificially expanding the pool of available workers for jobs particularly in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics fields. As a result, this would put downward pressure on wages for all tech workers. Furthermore, the program actually incentivizes employers to hire foreign students because they don't have to pay the employer portion of payroll taxes or a prevailing wage. Immigration policy should serve in the interests of American workers, not against it.I oppose the Department of Homeland Security's proposed rule that would expand the Optional Practical Training program. This expansion would allow U.S. tech companies to hire foreign students for up to 3 years and avoid paying their share of payroll taxes, equivalent to 7.65% of the employee's pay. Not only does this program create an incentive for these companies to hire foreign students over qualified Americans, but it also could violate the foreign student's pledge when they received their F-1 visa to leave the country after completing their degree. With recent college graduates struggling to find work, this is not the time to provide companies with an incentive to hire foreign citizens over U.S. citizens.The Department of Homeland Security's proposed rule to expand the Optional Practical Training program amounts to corporate welfare. The proposed rule would extend the amount of time a foreign student can work in the United States from one year to three years. It artificially expands the pool of available workers, allowing employers to depress wages and avoid paying their share of payroll taxes by hiring foreign workers instead of American workers. This rule lines the pockets of greedy business owners at the expense of American workers.The Optional Practical Training program allows U.S. employers to hire foreign students for up to 1 year or up to 29 months in certain fields of study. The program was meant to provide foreign students with on-the-job training that would benefit them when they return to their home countries. Instead, this proposed rule, which will extend the program for STEM students to 36 months, would create a bridge to a longer-term work visa and eventual green card. This is a direct violation of the foreign student's pledge when they received their student visa to leave the country upon graduation. It's hard enough already for American workers, especially recent U.S. graduates, to find work, and this rule would make it even more difficult by adding unnecessary job competition to the mix.
Support education for USA citizens. Support all types of jobs for USA citizens. Let the foreign governments support the education of foreign students. Let the foreign governments provide jobs for their own citizens
I agree with this proposal as it votes for the right of foreign talents to work in the United States.
I strongly support the proposal.The USA staying on the top of the world lies on attracting the most talent people around the world. The STEM OPT extension gives more chance to the high level educated foreigners better contributing themselves to American considering the limitation of H1B headcounts.Keep most talent people in American and make USA lead the world for another tens of years.
This proposal will let foreign engineering students work in US companies after they graduate, which will greatly benefit US economy. Besides, the working positions they'll be in, like computer science and software engineer, are not conflict with the positions that most US citizen are interested in, so I believe this proposal will benefit US economy and US working market, and will also let hi-tech companies in US recruit more talented foreign nation students, which will also be beneficial to these companies.
This proposal will let foreign engineering students work in US companies after they graduate, which will greatly benefit US economy. Besides, the working positions they'll be in, like computer science and software engineer, are not conflict with the positions that most US citizen are interested in, so I believe this proposal will benefit US economy and US working market, and will also let hi-tech companies in US recruit more talented foreign nation students, which will also be beneficial to these companies.
F-1 Students With STEM Degrees's Expanding OPT is really needful, for both American companies and students themselves. As all know, Many companies, mostly IT companies do need talents(especially in STEM) as their employees.If STEM Extension is cancelled finally, I guess more than 50000 employees HAVE TO leave their jobs, which means a big impact on companies's operations. Companies will suffer the loss because qualified employees were kicked out because the cancellation of OPT extension. On F1 student's side, they should be given the chance to use their knowledge to do real practical training. Also, America can also take advantage of those excellent people. OPT extension and expanding opportunities are really beneficial for both America and F1 students.
This OPT program has been widely abused and become a great threat to American workers. A great deal of big companies use this OPT program to hire international students with low salaries. If this OPT extension program is approved, a lot of American citizen will lose their jobs! DHS officials, please stop this OPT extension for your friends, your families and your communities. Otherwise sooner or later, your jobs will also be taken by hundreds of thousands of young international students in this OPT program!!
I strongly support the new rule of giving 24 months of OPT extension to STEM students. First of all, practical training is very important for students in STEM majors. They can get helpful working experience, which they are not able to acquire from taking classes in school. Secondly, many STEM graduate students received scholarships or assistantships from school, companies, or government. They contributed their talents as a student and accumulated research experience as well. It is very beneficial to the US if they can keep working for US companies, schools or research institutes. While the current H1B lottery policy made it difficult for those students to get a visa, it is very important to give a longer period of OPT time for STEM students. Thus, I would strongly recommend to extend their total OPT time to 36 months or even longer. Sincerely,Jack
Why am I NOT surprised at this?Our school systems have failed miserably at educating students HERE for such prestigious positions, involving Science, Tech, Engineering and Math.  A good majority can't pass 10th grade reading and writing levels, let alone STEM!It just goes to show, that Americas education system has failed and this will only get worse.  Then again, it's all based on parental guidance, which as we are witnessing today, is also a dismal failure!Do I support this?...What other options are there for employers who are seeking qualified people?The ONLY thing we're good at in this country, is talking and texting on a cell phone and a lot can't even do that right!There ARE people who cannot afford an education in the finer institutions, that should be given the opportunity first.  Unfortunately for a lot of them though, they may not qualify for a grant or are preoccupied by family related obligations, that prevents them from the education required to fill these positions.It's sad to see that DHS is seeking personnel outside our borders to fill these positions, instead of seeking people HERE to education them HERE, so that they could remain living and working HERE!Bottom Line...Giving Americans the opportunities, will make our country economically strong.  Giving it to Foreigners will only make their countries stronger.Is that what DHS wants...for America to fail and become "Third World"?
Last year, the Center for Immigration Studies submitted a Freedom of Information Act request to learn more about the OPT program and its impact on American workers. CIS confirmed that:    497,274 work authorizations were granted through OPT between 2009 and 2015    Both the workers and their employers are exempt from payroll taxes, costing the Social Security and Medicare Trust Funds $4 billionAdditionally, employers are not required to pay OPT workers the prevailing wage, meaning they can hire OPT workers for lower wages than American workers who would perform the same tasks.The OPT program was also designed to allow foreign students to gain work experience in their field of study that would help them find work when they return to their home countries. But instead, the proposed extension for tech workers would, in effect, create a bridge to an H-1B tech-worker visa and eventual employment-based green cards.Simply put, the OPT program is an easy way for tech companies to recruit cheaper foreign workers at the expense of American workers and STEM students. Please stop this rule today!  Stand up for American citizens instead, anything less is un-American.
The rule requires these organizations to set up mentoring programs for foreign graduates to work under OPT. However, there is no requirement that American graduates receive the same benefit."Let's be fair to U.S. citizens and students.
No more foreign workers to increase unemployment and decrease wages.
I am totally for this proposal! I have master degree and I love the job I am doing now, but I didn't get chosen by H1_B lottery which means I have to leave the job soon since my OPT will expire soon. I hope this extension proposal would get approved!
Has our government lost their minds?  I say no to Optional Practical Training (OPT), which gives employers financial incentives to hire foreign students over Americans.
As a STEM F1 student, when I heard about this proposed rule, I felt very happy but a little bit surprised, since it is so different from the news I got 2 months ago. But when I came to think about it calmly, I knew it would be a win-win for STEM students and U.S., so I think it would be a fair and good rule and in my opinion I would definitely say a big YES.First, with a 24 month extension of STEM OPT and all other related proposals concerning employees' rights, I believe we can gain better training and exercise through this OPT period, and be better prepared for future career, since experience is especially important for the technology related jobs.Secondly, STEM OPT student would be able to take more rounds of H1B visa draw, which greatly increases the chances of getting working visa and staying longer within U.S. Even if there is still no H1b, this longer OPT period would provide more time for students to get prepared and make future plans such as graduate schools.On the other hand, for U.S. universities and colleges, this proposed rule would greatly increase the attraction to international STEM students, so it is better for building academic diversity and competence.For U.S. job market, extended OPT will bring more STEM students into industry, which will benefit the whole job system. A lot of places can be improved along with this proposed role and a more matured training system can be realized. U.S.'s career market is demanding STEM talents and with their work, numerous social value can be generated, which is a good thing to U.S.' economics and technology.Finally, these international STEM students are students who accept the highest education of U.S. and dream of contributing to the development of science and technology in the most advanced country in the world. They are becoming values that cannot be ignored, and they are worth given better opportunities.
This is a paling that our elected officials would want to give much needed jobs to foreign immigrants. When our own young adults have no work now.It's time that we start rebuilding our economy buy giving Americans these jobs.It's long  overdue that we should fix our problems at home first instead of giving to foreigns.Our government  was  elected to help us not imigrents from other countries we the people should stand up and say enough is enough let's make America great again  not other countries
We need to care for our own first!
I personally strongly support this expanding!
There's quite a lot we could say about this particular subject, but instead, we will try to keep it short and to the point   -   such as:-   OPT denied American workers more than 430,000 jobs during the years 2009-2013; and-   OPT removed $4 billion from the Social Security and Medicare trust funds.-   OPT is meant to be a temporary training program, not as a bridge to a longer-term work visa or a way for employers to hire cheaper foreign labor in lieu of Americans.-   the proposed rule effectively "requires employers and universities to engage in unlawful immigration status discrimination."-   The rule requires these organizations to set up mentoring programs for foreign graduates to work under OPT. However, there is no requirement that American graduates receive the same benefit.-   this entire course of action from the government is to MAKE SURE ONLY foreign students get government help, while American students get NONE (which is TOTALLY unconstitutional) and the promised protection of U.S. workers is, as usual from this Administration, a lie!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
Stop the insanity.  Native born Americans are losing too many jobs to foreign workers.  We have to stop this and now!
With millions of Americans out of work, or underemployed, it is close to criminal for companies to hire foreign workers, and for the US government to encourage the practice.A quote here:Professor Norm Matloff of UC Davis:    On a variety of measures, the former foreign students have talent lesser than, or equal to, their American peers.    Skilled-foreign-worker programs are causing an internal brain drain in the United States.    If the U.S. indeed "needs" the foreign students to remedy a STEM labor shortage, why do these students need training?    If workers with such training are indeed needed, why won't these special mentoring programs be open to Americans?    OPT expands the pool of YOUNG workers....this is the core of how SCE, Disney and so on can legally save lots of money by hiring foreign workers -- the latter are younger, thus, much cheaper, than the Americans they replace.
24 months gives students up to two chances -- maybe three -- to apply for an H-1B. Since even the additional Masters quota is subject to a lottery, there's a roughly 10-20% chance the candidate will not be able to get through the lottery in that 24-month period and will have to leave the US. This is unfortunate. As a tentative fix, I would suggest allowing unlimited STEM OPT extensions for 12 month periods to people that have made a good faith attempt to apply for an H-1B but were not selected in the lottery.
This will most certainly improve the quality of our workforce and attract brighter minds to our country. Nobody wants to live in uncertainty of their future, and by extending time, you are guaranteeing better work from people who have a great deal to contribute to this country
After reading this I ask why are foreign students given an advantage over AMERICAN citizens?A Freedom of Information Act request from the Center for Immigration Studies revealed two shocking takeaways about the OPT program that DHS proposes to expand:OPT denied American workers more than 430,000 jobs during the years 2009-2013; andOPT removed $4 billion from the Social Security and Medicare trust funds.AMERICAN workers should always come first!!!
This program is a complete fiasco.  A foreign student here in a STEM curriculum should not be provided ANY US federal, state, or local government assistance whatsoever.  We have thousands of fully capable US CITIZEN and legal immigrant (green card) students that would appreciate the same assistance but because a potential employer of the foreign student would not have to pay their portion of payroll taxes (social security, etc.) the American student is at a major disadvantage in finding employment.  This is totally unacceptable.  The liberal union and government interference that has totally wrecked our K-12 education system in this country now proposes to double down on their ineptitude by importing foreign students to cover any perceived lack of adequately prepared college candidates.  Foreign students should be limited to a small percentage of student enrollment in any college or university receiving any form of government assistance, whether direct or indirect via government backed or generated student loans or grants.  Further, no foreign student should be allowed to receive compensation by any employer unless they agree to pay the full payroll taxes - including that portion usually paid by the employer.  A special social security account number could be assigned to all students in this program so that funds received into that account could be directly applied to the US debt without any benefit to the non citizen student.  This would give the AMERICAN citizen student an employment advantage, which is as it should be in an AMERICAN institution. Further, instead of costing tax dollars, it would help in reducing our historic debt.
Hi, My name is Azizul.. 12 months is never enough for a Student pursuing masters and hence support the extension of the opt period From 17 to 24 months. To be able to fully utilize the education once received, one mustHave enough time to contribute to this great nations economy and maintain its competitiveness.
Hi, My name is Azizul.. 12 months is never enough for a Student pursuing masters and hence support the extension of the opt period From 17 to 24 months. To be able to fully utilize the education once received, one mustHave enough time to contribute to this great nations economy and maintain its competitiveness.
This rule will deny work to hundreds of thousands of U S Citizens and give their jobs to foreigners. These foreigners will neither pay Social Security or Medicare taxes, not be paid the prevailing wage and continue a objective of this Administration to decimate the middle class. There is no shortage of STEM workers here but they are being undercut to provide cheap foreign labor. Let's get back the 430,000 jobs denied American workers by OPT dduring the years 2009-2013 and get back the $4 Billion OPT removed from Social Security and Medicare.
I think this policy is really good for f1 student to gain some real world experience. Also, it is really helpful for the economy and technology development in the US.
Simply put, the OPT program is an easy way for tech companies to recruit cheaper foreign workers at the expense of American workers and STEM students. Please help up stop this rule today!This extension of time in nothing but a bald face attempt to form a bridge for foreign STEM workers to remain in this country and drive down wages of citizen workers who are struggling to find work and to make a living wage when they.
I strongly support stem rule.. It gives students to explore more oppurtunity before settling down
I am an international student currently enrolled in a PHD program. I personally benefitted from the OPT from when I finished my college degree 5 years ago. I was able to apply the knowledge I learned in the classroom in real world. I practice using simulation software that I barely used in school. Moreover, the training program simulated my interests in engineering and made me realize that I want to learn more about chemical engineering. So I went back to school and enrolled in a PHD program. If I did not have the chance to participate in the OPT program, I would have not be where I am right now. Now that I will graduate with my PHD soon, I do hope I will get the same opportunity when I graduate. A training program when students graduate really complement our classroom education.I support the proposed rule! Please pass the rule!
I welcome this rule with my open arms, STEM extension is something which was promised and vacating it would be completely unjustified. This extension would not only give foreign students the opportunity to practice their degree but also give them the American experience which later they can take back with pride and help their respective nation. I guess that's what American spirit teaches us, and that's why we love America.
I sincerely agree with and support the proposal to extend international students' OPT related to stem majors. U.S., as a nation originated from immigrants, has always been kind and nice to people with expertise around the world which in return has witnessed the tremendous growth and enhancements from technology. Extending OPT for excellent international students serves the people of U.S.
The department of Homeland security's proposed rule to exp[and the optional practical traning program amounts to corporate welfare. This rule lines the pocdkets of greedy business owners at theexzspense of American workers.
I really think this proposal should be supported for the following reasons:1) With longer opt extension, the foreigners with higher education background and top-level talents that is an innegligible portion in the contribution of US industrial, educational and economical aspects, can have long time to serve in various companies, which will strengthen the power of US science and technology and boost US economy in the long run2) This would help both US universities and US employers to remain competitive in the global market.3) The OPT extension exists since 2008, and the US economic keeps improving during this time. Whatever is has every reason for being.
My shy question;  Do the countries of these foreign students give US grads a work visa?Karl
Many college grads in STEM fields are having trouble finding good-paying jobs in their field.That means every foreign student who gets a job under the OPT program is keeping an Americangrad from having a job.  The OPT program needs a full congressional vetting process and should not be continued -- let alone expanded -- without congressional approval.
This has my vote
This rule change benefits foreign students and workers over American workers. It also will cost Social Security about 1 billion per year.This cost is not justified.
To whom it may concern, I came to US because of its diversity, its embrace of intelligence, and its cutting-edge policies. However, I was really disappointed by the proposal that cancels the expanding training opportunities for F-1 visa with STEM Degrees. What is the education for? For bringing great ideas to the real world, for improving our lives with our knowledge, for collaborating with people from all over the world. As a F-1 student with STEM degree, I do want to contribute myself after graduation, I do want to seize the opportunities, I do want to have a bright future. But, I need a supportive environment. Without it, I will be like a bird without wings, a fish without water. How sad it is! I believe US welcomes all brilliant students because we could create lots of  value to this country as well as maximize the benefits from the jobs. It will reach to a win-win situation for STEM extension. I hope you could consider it sincerely.Thank you for your time and consideration.Regards,A F-1 Student with a hopeful heart
very wise decision and it is beneficial to both of US firms and those high tech F-1 students
I strongly support the rule.
With all due respect, I approve of STEM OPT. It is both necessary and positive to not only the participants, but to U.S residents and citizens as well. The loss of STEM OPT would inflict great grief and hardships to participants, employers, and loved ones. This program is essential for U.S progress in STEM fields. I fully support STEM OPT and it's endeavors.
Comments on Docket No. ICEB-2015-0002 Effect on American workers and prospective workers:<span style="padding-left: 30px"></span>I write this comment as an Information Technology professional who has worked and hired IT trained US professionals, IT trained returning US Military Veterans and Foreign IT workers.<span style="padding-left: 30px"></span>This program is open only to foreign workers and claims to be temporary followed by students returning to their home countries.  It clearly represents discrimination against American students and American workers including those that have given up the search due to unfair regulations allowing hiring of less expensive foreigners by establishing standards in this regulation that allow all of them to be hired and thus displaced by foreign students.o   The length of time allowed brings this extension to the same as the misused H1 series of visas &amp; allows the foreign student to qualify for H1 series visas.  In the past, Disney IT workers and other IT workers have been displaced by excessive H1 series visas.o   The standards aimed at protecting American workers are so vague that they will protect no one except the foreign student. o   It is essential that  standards be strengthened to require both local and national advertising as well as us veteran job sites, the Veterans Administration job site and all 50 US state job boards, that are tied to unemployment compensation for that state, stating clear position qualifications for US citizen and legal entrants, excluding any H1 series visas, and requiring each position to be filled with a qualifying citizen or entrant applying BEFORE any STEM foreign student may be considered. o   The hiring entity must also provide each rejected applicant with the reason for disqualification as an applicant and with a minimum of a 90 day appeal window when the applicant believes the company has not clearly proven that the applicant is not qualified under the position qualifications or that the qualifications were developed to only allow foreign applicants.  Hiring must be frozen until all appeals have been adjudicated.<span style="padding-left: 30px"></span>The program also defunds Social Security and Medicare by not requiring payment on behalf of the foreign worker. o   Company payroll taxes Must be collected from any hiring company and rules established to make sure these funds are properly deposited in the programs which were designed to use current workers to fund them.<span style="padding-left: 30px"></span>Prevailing wages are vague and take note of foreign country wages<span style="padding-left: 30px"></span>A rewrite is required to clearly indicate that in the US State where the job is located wages for similar positions are used and, if a position is being abolished as part of hiring for this job, the salary and benefits offered must be at least 5% higher than the abolished position.  <span style="padding-left: 30px"></span>This standard should also be used on H1 series visas when they Foreign Workers apply for positions if US workers are being phased out.
This is a great initiative. It will not only help students but will also help employers  get best talent from all over the world. As a student, one year of training is not enough because it takes lot of time to ramp up on the large scale work that happen in STEM companies. Having two years at disposal will be really helpful
YOU HAVE GOT TO BE KIDDING. WHAT HAS THIS COUNTRY TURNED INTO? WE HAVE ABSOLUTELY NO REQUIREMENT TO PROVIDE JOPBS FOR FOREIGNERS WHEN OUR OWN CITIZENS CAN'T FIND WORK. IF YOU WANT TO START A PROGRAM FOR USA CITIZENS ONLY TO TRAIN THEN I WOULD SUPPORT THIS.
Strongly support. The economy and competitiveness of the US will definitely die without those international talents. I have been working in the company for a long while and very familiar with the quality of new US graduates they sent to us. Period.
I'm against the expansion of foreign , aliens, UnAmericans &amp; anyone who believes in Sharia Law to stay in AMERICA after graduation. 60 days or Deported. Our government is giving ALL FOREIGNERS A FREE EDUCATION, FREE HOUSING, FRE SUBSIDIES &amp; FOOD STAMPS.I AM TIRED OF MY SOCIAL SECURITY DISABILITY BEING CUT TO SUPPORT MILLIONS OF FOREIGNERS. VETERANS &amp; TAXX PAYERS ARE BEING THROWED INTO POVERTY TO SUPPORT ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS. MUSLIM OBAMA IS GRANTING AUTOMATIC CITIZENSHIP TO MUSLIMS. WHO ARE THROWING THIS COUNTRY BACK TO CAVEMAN ERA.WHERE EVERY SICK ACT IS  LEGAL THROUGH SHARIA LAW.CLOSE OUR BORDERS, MAKE MINIMUM LIMITS TO ALLOW IMMIGRANTS TO BE COME CITIZENS SWEARING THEIR ALLEGIANCE TO AMERICA.Is birth certificates needed that much to over populate the United States into bankruptcy ?
Cool policy! For sure it will decrease the shortage of STEM workers. We need to attract all those talent people all around the world. That is what makes our country great!
I think it would be a wonderful thing, if the U.S. Government, were to actually represent the American people for a change.  The American people consist of citizens of this country.  I thought I should put that in this letter, because it seems that the U.S. Government seems to believe it represents the people of the entire world.  Is there any common sense left in Washington DC?  Do any of the bureaucrats every spend any time outside of the Capital?  The country is hurting for jobs that can actually afford to have you work for a full 40 hours, and pay a living wage again.  There are many skilled people being put out of work by faceless people catering to special interest.  How about the interest of American citizens?
12 months are usually not enough to successfully apply for a H1B VISA. Therefore, the extensions are extremely important.
I definitely welcome this rule proposed by the government.
OPT denied American workers more than 430,000 jobs during the years 2009-2013; and OPT removed $4 billion from the Social Security and Medicare trust funds.Please stop this economic boycott of American workers and is sending American money out of economy into foreign hands.This puts our country at risk further by allowing more foreigners into our country that could have alternative purposes against our national security.
I firmy agree with this rule
Why would anyone think they could justify displacing American workers with foreigners? It makes no sense when ther are 94 Million Americans who have given up looking for work?  When we have the lowest worker participation rate in decades?I strongly object to taking these jobs away from Americans like Disney and Southern California Edison has done!
This is an absolute necessary rule which should have never been taken to the court. Our economy is dependent from talent coming from all over the world. America is great and the land of free as it welcomes people who have something  in them. These students are STEM graduates and their knowledge and education benefits the country. Thanks for the opportunity to comment.
I am a newly employed Quantitative Analyst working for Keybank in Cleveland area. As I know, most of the banks are hiring international students, who are majoring in STEM, in risk management area, which is a very important department for banks, especially after financial crisis. Unfortunately, only half of the international employees could receive working visa every year in our bank. So it is truly necessary to extend OPT to keep these valuable employees in U.S.
As a new foreign graduate student with STEM major, it's an exciting news if the extension could be valid, not mention about increasing to 24 months. I have friends who got a job with a lot of efforts, and enjoyed working and making their own contributions to the industry. However, some of them don't have the luck to get H1B visa and their OPT was expired. They leaved the country sadly, at the same time US lose these precious intelligents.I believe with the new rules become legitimate, more and more students are willing to come to US to study and work. Next Steve Jobs could be one of them, leading US to change the world second time.
No jobs for people here illegally or students, Americans citizens can not find jobs or jobs that pay enough to support their families.  This just wants me to vote for no immigration and to deport all illegals.  We don't need more people, the abortion industries kills more Americans each year that immigrate here.  What is the government trying to do?  Is it trying to replace the Americans who have here since the 1600, 1700, and 1800's, because that sure looks like what it is trying to do.  No to anything for immigrants who by the way are suppose to be supported by a sponsor and not the welfare system, no to illegal immigrants and hell no to students trying to take our jobs.
The Department of Homeland Security responded to a FOIA request from the Center for Immigration Studies(http://cis.org/north/obscure-immigration-program-hurts-us-residents-both-young-and-old).  According to the response,the number of foreign college graduates from U.S. universities  in their DHS-created disguise of college students,so they can work legally  increased sharply in the years 2009 to 2013. The total soared to nearly 100,000 in 2013,and presumably is still growing. It had been at just under 74,000 in 2009. In other words, American employersare providing on-the-job training for foreign graduates of American colleges instead of hiring American citizens that also aregraduates with little or no work experience.  Increasing the time that a foreign graduate can stay in this Government "program"will increase de facto discrimination against qualified American citizens that want to do honest work for a living.
I think it will give a good exposure to international students on the work culture in USA. Also it will be good for companies to use the talent of these students. The other thing is it will also help the USA to increase their economy through education. As more international students might come into USA for studies if the OPT is extendedThis is actually a very good step of DHS.
There are MILLIONS  of unemployed Americans with STEM credentials - and American Students with STEM course credits - who deserve a better chance at a U.S. job (rather than employ foreing applicants, many of whom have no intention of going back home but rather want to stay in the USA some way or another. This 'program' allows employers to hire foreigners and not pay Social Security taxes, robbing S.S. of fund inputs it should rightfully receive. This is just another blatant attempt by the Obama Admin to skirt legal and lawful immigration laws of the USA.  Further, it is another attempt at 'Open Borders' .
Please DO NOT expand the OPT.Information provided by a Freedom of Information Act request shows that OPT denied American workers more than 430,000 jobs during the years 2009-2013; and OPT has removed $4 billion from the Social Security and Medicare trust funds. This is plainly NOT in the interest of American workers.The Optional Practical Training Program is used by foreign students as a bridge to stay in the U.S., and by employers to get around the H-1B cap. DHS' proposed rule runs counter to the original purpose of the OPT program.There are approximately 568,000 F-1 students in the U.S. in addition to 98,000 in 12-month OPT programs and 30,000 in 29-month OPT programs. Giving employers incentive to hire from this giant pool of workers undermines the job opportunities for American STEM workers.OPTs are sought after by employers because they tend to be younger (cheaper) than their American competitors. Employers save 7.65 percent when they hire foreign students instead of US workers because they don't pay FICA or Medicare taxes under the OPT program. OPT workers often hold jobs in the $60-$90,000 a year range, but they cost Social Security about $1 billion dollars a year.How in good conscience can the DHS--which is supposed to protect this country--propose expanding a program that is undermining the FINANCIAL SECURITY of the U.S.? Please explain this to me. Also, the DHS should be ashamed of itself.
It seems to me that with the sagging employment conditions in America for the last few years, that this is not the time for bringing in and or training foreign workers if the goal is Improving and Expanding Training Opportunities for F-1 Nonimmigrant Students With STEM Degrees and Cap-Gap Relief for All Eligible F-1 Students, would be preferable, as opposed to using the resources we have to train foreign students.  It is a world crisis indeed but destroying our economy and the future of our young men and women trying to find gainful employment, will not help others and will certainly hurt Americans.When America prospers it seems that everyone prospers, turning off the flow of a potential prosperity here in the US is definitely not a step forward, but in fact a backward one for Americans and no advantage for anyone else.Americans are feeling fragile and the bureaucracies in our country is not lending itself to strengthening the position of our citizens. I urge you to tighten the rules and save the country as I believe that the 2016 elections will create a whole new view of how to fix what is most definitely  broken.
As an international student in Mechanical Engineering, the extension option of OPT is really critical for me. As to the requirement of residential status, I have to spend longer time to find a match job.
I am willing to expand  training opportunities for F-1 nonimmigrant student  with STEM degrees
Please don't allow foreign workers to take American jobs.
The new STEM (12+24) rule will help all the International Students to learn the Advanced Technology completely.Thank you DHS .
United States is formed by a group of smart immigrations. Attracting smart students from all of the world is a way to keep United States being a pioneer in all different fields. Extending OPT is a great way to keep this traditional foundation of a nation. Elon Musk was a foreign student with a F-1 visa back in days. He found paypal, solar city, tesla, and all other incredible companies which provides countless jobs in U.S. He is a U.S. citizen now. I don't think he can achieve this without a program called OPT.
AMERICAN STUDENTS COME FIRST WITH ME. THIS BRINGING IN OF FOREIGNERS TO TAKE AMERICAN JOBS SUCKS AND IS CORRUPT TO THE CORE. THIS PROPOSAL STINKS. WE SHOULD KEEP OUT ALL FOREIGNERS FROM THIS COUNTRY.RICH CORPORATIONS HAVE COLLUDED WITH OUR GOVT TO TRY TO BUST WAGES IN THE USA AND TURN US ALL INTO BANKRUPTS DUE TO FLOODING AND OVERWHEMING AMERICA WITH FOREIGNERS AT ALL LEVELS. WE NEED TO KEEP OUT ALL THESE STUDENTS/EMPLOYEES, WHICH ARE THEY AND THIS PRPOSAL DOESNT MAKE CLEAR WHICH THEY ARE EITHER. THIS CORRUPT GOVT IS FLOODING AMERICA WITH FOREIGNERS TO TAKE AMERICAN JOBS. WE HAVE NOTHING LEFT UNLESS WE PUT A STOP TO THIS FLOODING AND OVERWHELMING OF AMERICA WITH FOREIGNERS. WE HAVE 325 MILLION PEOPLE WHO DESERVE PROTECTION., WE WANT JOBS IN AMERICA TO GO TO AMERICANS. WE HAVE PLENTY OF INTELLIGENT STUDENTS. WE ALWAYS HAD. WE USED TO HAVE A GOOD COUNTREY. NOT WE HAVE NOTHING LEFT IN AMERICA EXCEPT CATERING AND CHANGING EVERYTHING AMERICA FOR THESE FOREIGNERS FLOODING INTO THIS COUNTRY TO MAKE MONEY. THESE FOREIGNERS ARE SCAMMING AMERICANS EVERY CHANCE THEY GET. THE NEWS IS IN THE PAPER EVERY DAY OF THE CRIMNIALITYH THAT THESE FOREIGNERS COME HERE TO DO. I WANT THE GATES CLOSED DOWN FOR A WHILE. WE NEED TO ASSIMILATE WHO IS HERE. WE NEED TO GET OUT OF THIS COUNTRY THOSE WHO HAVE OVERSTAYED VISAS. I WANT NO MORE VISAS ISSUED TO ANY FOREIGNER UNTIL THIS STUPID AGENCY MAKES THOSE WHO HAVE OVERSTAYED LEAVE THIS COUNTRY. WHAT KIND OF INEPT DEPT/AGENCY DO WE HAVE HERE LETTING IN MORE WHEN YOU CANT CONTROL WHAT YOU PREVEIOUSLY ALLOWED INTO THIS COUNTRY. THE FACT IS AMERICAN WORKERS HAVE BEEN HURT VERY BADLY BY THIS LOOSE VICIOUS FOREIGNER POLICY WHICH ALLOWS AMERICAN JOBS TO BE TAKEN BY FOREIGNERS. STOP THAT NOW. THIS PROPOSAL SUCKS. AND SO DOES THIS AGENCY WHICH IS ACTING TO VICIOUSL,Y HURT AMERICAN WORKERS DUE TO PRESIDENTIAL EDICTS.
I have a BS degree in electrical engineering and over thirty years of experience. I once again find myself unemployed. I have spent much of my career surrounded by unremarkable foreigners. I have watched my pay being suppressed by these unneeded workers all these years. Student visas should not be used to supplement the gross fraud of the H-1b visa program. Students should come for education, not to displace American workers. F-1 visa holders should come with sufficient funds to self support. The H-1b program should be eliminated.
US workers have lost jobs and have had wages adversely affected by foreign workers in the US, legal and illegal.
I oppose the Department of Homeland Security's proposed rule that would expand the Optional Practical Training program. The proposed expansion would allow U.S. businesses to hire foreign students for up to 3 years and avoid paying their share of payroll taxes, equivalent to 7.65% of the employee's pay. Not only does this program create an incentive for these companies to hire foreign students over qualified Americans, but it also could violate the foreign student's pledge when they received their F-1 visa to leave the country after completing their degree. With recent U.S. college graduates, who have the required qualifications to satisfy the position requirements of the business hiring to fill the position, struggling to find employment, it is not the province of DHS to provide companies with an incentive to hire foreign citizen employees over U.S. citizens. The proposed rule arbitrarily and effectively decreases the cost to the business of filling its position offered with a lower cost foreign employee. This proposed rule would establish by default, a Federal government subsidization of the business doing the hiring distorting the free market in establishing the prevailing wage for employees with the requisite skills required of the position being filled. This proposed rule would permanently lower the prevailing wage, thus, promulgating a mass hiring of foreign citizen graduates over available, qualified U.S. college graduates who are citizens. Should this proposed rule be enacted, the reduction to Social Security payments forecasted is immense - projected to be as much as $1 billion. With a projected deficit that challenges the solvency of the Social Security program, this is not the direction to take to assist in sustaining Social Security solvency. Furthermore, this proposed rule promulgated by the DHS, imposes on the province exclusively of the US Congress and is in opposition to the intent of the US Senate, in its establishment of the H-1B program.
We must put American workers first.  This system that our own government is trying to put in place for foreign workers in the USA is wrong.  We must make sure that ALL Americans have first choice for all jobs in the USA.  Our college graduates cannot find jobs and many experienced American workers are now forced to train foreign workers to replace them.  No more H-1b or any contract workers in the USA, these corporations/companies are paying them less than American workers with no benefits.  Americans are being displaced in their own country.  Where are the rights of American citizens who are being forced out of jobs.  I must insist that all foreign contract workers such as the H-1b workers be denied jobs in the USA and replaced by American citizens only.  Anything else is a travesty to the American people. NO OPT should be allowed in the USA! All f-1 stem should be denied.American citizens are well educated and many are working globally. Protect Americans only.It is a lie that American workers are not qualified when our own children are sitting in American college classes with these same foreign students and the American people have also have excellent educations, possibly better.  Why are the foreign people sending their children over to attend American colleges if they were not excellent as our own American college students are being taught sitting in the same American class rooms.Corporations/companies have lied to the government and our American citizens only for cheaper wages and benefit, American citizens rights are being denied.
I totally supported this rule, here are my points:1: Nowadays, a lot of countries are trying to attract more international students, including Canada, UK,  China and so on. The reason is very obvious, on one side they want to let more people know their country to increase their impact on the world, and also they want to make money from these international students! Why more and more people choose the United States for STEM degree? That is because they can find a stem related job after they graduate, if the stem opt extension ended, there is no doubt that most of international students will lost their interest to go to the US.2: Currently there are more than 50000 people who are already in 17 months opt extension, if this extension ended, all these people should leave the US immediately. Some of them may involved in some very important research or project, if they are forced to leave, that would caused countless lose to American Company, American Lab and School! So DHS should address this critical problem to reduce the lose to Americans.3: Nowadays a lot of research should last more that 24-36  months, if the student only have one year of OPT, it is impossible for them to finish the project, which is really a bad things. I worked for Oracle Internet of Things Project more than one year, a lot efforts has been made in the past year, but the final product is still under development, more time are needed for the project to be finished!4: Some people may says the STEM extension of OPT would allow international students to rob the job from US people, but the real things is that students in STEM extension period are also allowed to work in e-verified company, which means that international students would have the same pay as US people and they will also need to pay tax as US people. There would be no chance for e-verified company to hire low cost people. I worked for Oracle American Inc for more than one year, I can tell you that nearly 1/3 on my annual income as been reduced as tax to American government!
Fully support the proposal
The STEM OPT Extension is critical to the retention of technological talent in the United States. With one of the most significant higher education systems in the world, the United States can translate the educational success of top students from around the world to economic success only through a more progressive and accommodative immigration system, which necessarily includes more employment opportunities post graduation for international students with specialized skills. This law is the first step of an important process of reforming the United State's immigration system to reintroduce growth to an otherwise stagnant economy.
Yes this is a good move. We need more skilled workers who can make a difference. If we don't take this into consideration a lot of the tech companies will face an economic problem and the the nation as a hole will suffer.
Please don't do this. There is no shortage of STEM workers in the United States. American college students are being discouraged from entering these fields due to the lack of jobs available to them. Yet we continue to allow more and more immigrant workers to compete for these jobs. All of the low end/training positions are being filled by non US workers by either outsourcing the jobs overseas or bringing young, inexperienced tech workers into the US from other countries. This is a travesty for the future of technological development and innovation for the United States. Again please do not do this we have enough competition for these jobs as is.Thanks- Carl Soderstrom
I fully support the extension of opt .i think it will surely help each and every student to learn some knowledge
"http://www.iie.org/Research-and-Publications/Open-Doors/Data/Economic-Impact-of-International-Students" sites that "International students contributed more than $27 billion to the U.S. economy, according to the U.S. Department of Commerce."Attracting International Students to US Universities in STEM Discipline is important in the development of US Economy. If the proposed OPT Extension is increased to 36 months, it would attract more international students to come and study in US Universities. This would help both US universities and US employers to remain competitive in the global market.
This is a great rule ! Thanks for proposing this new OPT STEM rule which would benefit United States in the science &amp; technology aspect.
Opt extension for F-1 students with STEM degree can benefit the entire society.
Opt extension for F-1 students with STEM degree can benefit the entire society.
American Citizen are first there, are too many american out of worked and going hungry and too many sleeping on the street if Obama keep ignoring our citizen he is going to have a revolution on his hand.
STEM OPT extension is a great positive move by America towards its financial growth and stability. OPT extension results directly in the job growth in the various sectors, nonetheless to say IT, which in turn directly reflects towards the stability and firmness to the economy. Growth in the job opportunities results in the increase of the TAX collection through which the stability to the states comes. So for the welfare of the great United States of America , I support STEM OPT extension.God Bless America!!
First I would say I highly support the OPT extension rule. Those people who think that STEM international students grab native jobs may have not considered the real reason of unemployment rate behind. There should be tons of analysis of unemployment cases and you will find this is nothing to STEM international students. I would not waste too many words here explaining this but I want to mention that high-tech companies need STEM international students to work for them and the ultimate goal is to expand the business, in the mean time, creating more jobs in this nation and bringing up prosperity. In other word, this is a win-win strategy which can provide more jobs for people in the US. Please be open and from the long term all people will get benefits. Support the new rule and it would be even better to extend the entire OPT thus those skilled professionals will be less stressed while working.
Start putting U.S. citizens first.OPT denied American workers more than 430,000 jobs during the years 2009-2013; andOPT removed $4 billion from the Social Security and Medicare trust funds.
I support the decision of expanding the OPT extension to 24 months. F-1 students have always been a great population in supporting the science and technology fields of US. However, it has been hard for students to pursue a chance to get optional training because of their student status even given a 12 months period. The expansion of the OPT extension period to a 24 months will be a great support to these students who want to get some training after getting the degrees in STEM fields. Therefore, I hope this decision can be approved!
I support the decision of expanding the OPT extension to 24 months. F-1 students have always been a great population in supporting the science and technology fields of US. However, it has been hard for students to pursue a chance to get optional training because of their student status even given a 12 months period. The expansion of the OPT extension period to a 24 months will be a great support to these students who want to get some training after getting the degrees in STEM fields. Therefore, I hope this decision can be approved!
The main reason for me to choose USA instead of Uk or Japan to pursue my master degree is OPT, giving me a significant chance to practice my knowledge and making a contribution dong sth meaningful.
This is an outrage for American workers. More than 92 million are detached from  the labor force.Send foreign students home when their F visas expire.
There is no doubt that OPT extension is beneficial for both America and common American people. Students from all over the world are all elite in other countries. They will promote the development of science and technology, invent new and cool staff. I knew a genius guy who didn't get h1b and has to leave his company. I think this is a huge loss for company and American society. I truly advocate the OPT extension!
I am an international student and am strongly for this bill. I paid a higher tuition and did a good job during the two year graduate program. I feel unfair if the extension is getting cut since it's one of the reasons for me to decide to come here to do the program. If it's getting cut, I have only one chance to get the working visa. And the potential employer would take into consideration of the uncertainty and actually as I know, some firms have decided to stop hiring international students. I hope the courts would have some sympathy on us. America is an immigration country. It is the immigrants who made up this country and continue to contribute to this country.
This is a good step in attracting and retaining highly skilled professionals for the benefit of USA.
There are plenty of Americans that need jobs.  Americans that pay into our Social Security system.  Foreign workers do not.  It is in our self interest not to give these jobs to foreigners. Our country is going broke -- including Social Security.  Don't make it worse
I'm a small firm owner, I love to hire international student especially who are from China and Korea. They are just good at their scientific major and just hard-working. The Opt extension gives them more opportunities to contribute to my business and, of course to the whole society in the long run. Totally support it!
At a time when nearly 40% of the American citizen workforce is unemployed and dependent on the government for support, this Optional Practical Training proposal to offer incentives for employers to hire foreign STEM workers is absolute lunacy.  It would just make it harder for citizens to find jobs and become productive workers.  If you want to do something it should be to put a priority on jobs for citizens.  This proposal just makes our jobs and employment problems worse and I OPPOSE IT.
How about remembering that there are Americans already ready to step into these fields and are unemployed, in fact well over two million of them.  How about stop trying to import foreigners into our country to take these jobs.Bringing in more foreign workers does nothing but punish Americans that are already qualified to do these jobs and discourage those who want to get degrees in the future for these jobs.  Stop allowing these big companies to demand that you push Americans aside for foreign workers that will take away opportunities and hope for their future right here in their own country.
I am a Geophysics PhD student from Yale University, and an international student from China. I am writing this comment to support the decision of extending the STEM OPT period to 24 months, not only because it's in my own interest to do so, but more importantly it's also in American's interest. What makes America a great country? You might think democracy and freedom. Undeniably so. But is Europe less democratic or less free? I don't think so. IMHO, it's INNOVATION that really makes America great, and innovation is about people.Yet as an international student, I've seen many smart people, truly smart people, who graduated from top universities in China and IVY leagues in the US, and wanted to start up their career here in the US, but was forced back to China due to visa limitations. It's such a pity to see them having to leave the US for visa problems, for myself personally and for the Americans, since they were such young and bright minds.OPT extension is a critical step to help more smart people from all over the world and contribute their intelligence to the US, particularly in the STEM area. I hope this executive order will pass.
The Optional Practical Training Program undermines job opportunities for American workers. American workers must come first. Reduce and end the OPT program.
I definitely support STEM OPT extension. This will provide the students to get exposed to the real world working culture and will help them gain real time knowledge. Some problems in IT can be solved with the wide availability of these well educated and fresh graduates. The Billion dollar industries has more advantage with this and this will give the real meaning to the land of opportunities.
There is absolutely no good reason to expand this program given the economic and employment issues we currently have in this country.  I would like to receive an explanation how this helps America IN ANY WAY.  The program should be cancelled, not expanded.
It has gotten to the point that U.S. citizen qualified workers are only hired if an OPT worker cannot be found! My brother worked for Home Depot in their IT department as a contractor-to-perm worker and received stellar reviews from his boss, but he was told that he had to turn everything over and train an OPT worker who would be replacing him.  He found out that it was  because at the same salary, the OPT worker would be cheaper due to Home Depot not having to pay SS and medicare tax to the OPT worker. This OPT program is a disgusting betrayal by our own government!  Where can qualified U.S. entry level workers go?  Can this OPT program be opened to U.S. citizens too?  Citizens do not have the choice to offer themselves up without costing the SS and medicare tax discount. Only OPT foreign workers. How unfair is that!
Dear sir/ madam,Please stop giving away domestic US jobs to foreign nationals. The unemployment rate is still insane let alone the giving away of American jobs to foreign nationals.Keep American jobs here in America for American workers. Stop this ridiculousness!Thank you for your time, Jeff A. Jameson
Please do not do this. We need to be hiring American workers unless there is a job that no American is qualified to do. As soon as there is an American to do the job they should get it.We are sending an awful lot of our technical expertise back overseas everytime we do this while at the same time denying an American a job.We made it for many years with American workers. We do not need Foreign workers. Employers like them because they can pay them less. Make it worthwhile for Employers to hire Americans.
It's very important for not only F-1 students, but also all the tech companies and economy development of United States. It will benefit not only technology world, but also will bring profit for other industries. Highly supported this amend
I oppose the Department of Homeland Security's proposed rule that would expand the Optional Practical Training program. This expansion would allow U.S. tech companies to hire foreign students for up to 3 years and avoid paying their share of payroll taxes, equivalent to 7.65% of the employee's pay. Not only does this program create an incentive for these companies to hire foreign students over qualified Americans, but it also could violate the foreign student's pledge when they received theirF-1 visa to leave the country after completing their degree. With recent college graduates struggling to find work, this is not thetime to provide companies with an incentive to hire foreign citizens over U.S. citizens.Our immigration system is out of control between illegals and H1B1 visa's, there are millions of Americans out of work and thereare many big corporations laying off American employees and replacing them with cheaper foreign labor.
The United States Government should be focusing more on helping ACTUAL American workers to obtain jobs than illegal aliens or foreign nationals. This proposed policy on the increase of foreign students who will be hired as STEM workers defeats just such a purpose. It goes along with the entire trend and policy-making attitude of the Federal Government, including various leaders of both parties in which there is a constant push for amnesty, a need to drive up the legal immigration numbers, and a lack of enforcement for those who are here breaking the law and taking up employment for cheaper wages than the average American deserves. All this will do is continue to snatch potential employment from the hands of LEGITIMATE US workers and give them to foreign nationals who will work cheaper wages and keep skilled US students who need legitimate employment sitting on the sidelines.
The STEM Program is totally stacked against the American employee. The US Goverment and Obama administration are pushing for income equality among Americans. This program puts qualified American voters out of work in leiu of foren workers who are cheaper to hire for the employer, This means more money in the employers pocket. How does this program improve income equality? The Disney and Facebook CEO's increase their billion dollar salaries by donating to politions at the expense of the American worker. Vote down stem in favor of the American workers Harold Lansing Engineer
Subject: John Legal vs. Juan IllegalYou have two families: "John Legal" and "Juan Illegal". Both families have two parents, two children, and live in Arizona ..John Legal works in construction, has a Social Security Number and makes $25.00 per hour with taxes deducted.Juan Illegal also works in construction, has NO Social Security Number, and gets paid $15.00 in cash "under the table".Ready? Now pay attention....John Legal: $25.00 per hour x 40 hours = $1000.00 per week, or $52,000.00 per year. Now take 30% away for state and federal tax; John Legal now has $31,231.00.Juan Illegal: $15.00 per hour x 40 hours = $600.00 per week, or $31,200 per year.Juan Illegal pays no taxes. Juan Illegal now has $31,200.00.John Legal pays medical and dental insurance with limited coverage for his family at $600.00 per month, or $7,200.00 per year. John Legal now has $24,031.00.Juan Illegal has full medical and dental coverage through the state and local clinics and emergency hospitals at a cost of $0.00 per year. Juan Illegal still has $31,200.00.John Legal makes too much money and is not eligible for food stamps or welfare. John Legal pays $500.00 per month for food, or $6,000..00 per year. John Legal now has $18,031.00.Juan Illegal has no documented income and is eligible for food stamps, WIC and welfare. Juan Illegal still has $31,200.00.John Legal pays rent of $1,200.00 per month, or $14,400.00 per year. John Legal now has 9,631.00.Juan Illegal receives a $500.00 per month Federal Rent Subsidy. Juan Illegal pays out that $500.00 per month, or $6,000.00 per year. Juan Illegal still has $ 31,200.00.John Legal pays $200.00 per month, or $2,400.00 for car insurance. Some of that is uninsured motorist insurance. John Legal now has $7,231.00.Juan Illegal says, "We don't need no stinkin' insurance!" and still has $31,200.00.John Legal has to make his $7,231.00 stretch to pay utilities, gasoline, etc..Juan Illegal has to make his $31,200.00 stretch to pay utilities, gasoline, and what he sends out of the country every month..John Legal now works overtime on Saturdays or gets a part time job after work.Juan Illegal has nights and weekends off to enjoy with his family.John Legal's and Juan Illegal's children both attend the same elementary school. John Legal pays for his children's lunches, while Juan Illegal's children get a government sponsored lunch. Juan Illegal's children have an after school ESL program. John Legal's children go home.Now, when they reach college age, John Legal's kids may not get into a State School and may not qualify for scholarships, grants or other tuition help, even though John has been paying for state schools through his taxes, while Juan Illegal's kids "go to the head of the class" because they are a minority.John Legal and Juan Illegal both enjoy the same police and fire services, but John paid for them and Juan did not pay.If you vote for or support any politician that supports illegal aliens... You are part of the problem! Go to numbers usa on the web to make your voice heard today!  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  Comparing immigrants then and now misses a major difference.Then they came here and had no social programs that provided them anything but opportunity - today they come to a society that provides a set of social programs that instantly makes them better off economically on day one than they were at home.  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DHS Docket No. ICEB - 2015-002To whom it may concern,I was very pleased when I read the recent proposed OPT STEM extension legislation.  I think it was written reasonably with the various stakeholders in mind.I was glad to see a provision for employer training and mentoring programs (section V.D) , although that may turn into a barrier for graduates working with small employers who view this as a staffing burden.  Nonetheless, such a provision should enhance the overall work experience of our graduates.I believe 24 months of STEM extension employment would be an improvement to the educational experience for students (section III.B).  Students can acquire substantial work experience over 36 months (total including the initial period of OPT) assuming there's little unemployment.I was also relieved to see that students would report changes in name, address, and employer info. (name and address) directly to DHS (III.B).  It's very difficult to get graduates to keep in touch with us after graduation since we don't have much of a carrot to dangle.  The longer they are out (post-college), the more difficult this becomes.  This proposed requirement makes worlds of sense!As for students submitting an evaluation of his or her STEM OPT every six months to their DSO (V.D.), I am not sure that all DSO's are qualified to assess if graduates are truly meeting their goals.  I sometimes have just a basic understanding of what students are doing likely because both of my degrees are in the social sciences.  I don't believe such a designation is appropriate for many administrative employees of colleges and universities.  I also know that students will not consistently meet this requirement.  It's been burdensome to comply with the validation reporting requirements since students often don't stay in touch with us, regardless of requirements.  I'd urge DHS to please reconsider this provision.Finally, I wholeheartedly support a second period of STEM OPT being available to students who obtain a second qualifying STEM degree (V.B).  I also think it's very wise to allow students to work in the field of a previously earned qualifying degree, providing that the degree is from an accredited institution and the work would be directly related to that STEM major (V.F).  I appreciate the flexibility this provision demonstrates.  Both provisions acknowledge our need to remain competitive in this global education market as well as the gaps in the US labor market.Please let me know if you have any questions.Sincerely,Jacqueline Haring, PDSOFranklin &amp; Marshall College
I support the DHS Proposed Rule.As we all know, US. is an immigration country. With its immigration policy many extraordinary people are attracted from other countries to work for it. That's why U.S. can be the strongest and the most advanced country in the world.OPT STEM Extension is an important rule to retain scarce high-tech talents, who work for high-tech enterprises in U.S. These people are not only well-educated, but also very wealthy. They are the most important impetus to promote social progress and prosperity. If they have to give up their work because of the cancellation of OPT STEM Extension, it's a big loss of U.S.
Below comment is for Docket number: ICEB-2015-0002,for Improving and Expanding Training Opportunities for F-1 Nonimmigrant Students With STEM Degrees and Cap-Gap Relief for All Eligible F-1 Students:24 months STEM extension is a very good thought by DHS. This helps graduate students to use their valuable technical skills in the development of companies which in-turn is a development for the country. This new rule will also help Employers to retain the skill that is gained by employees in the 1st 17 months for an extended period of time instead of investing in hiring a new employee after 17 months and spending money to get the employee up to speed. Other Advantage is that, H1b quota which is being over filled with numerous applications every year will be reduced to a considerable limit as companies will be applying for H1b visa for OPT students only towards the end of 24 month OPT period in order to retain the employee. I don't see any disadvantage in providing 24 months STEM extension for OPT students. I support this decision as it is beneficial for the country as well as International students.
I fully support the new change of increasing the F-1 opt stem extension to 24 months instead of 17months.
Quoting Numbers USA newsletter: "A Freedom of Information Act request from the Center for Immigration Studies revealed two shocking takeaways about the OPT program that DHS proposes to expand:<span style="padding-left: 30px"></span>OPT denied American workers more than 430,000 jobs during the years 2009-2013; and<span style="padding-left: 30px"></span>OPT removed $4 billion from the Social Security and Medicare trust funds.General Facts About The Optional Practical Training Program (OPT):<span style="padding-left: 30px"></span>The original purpose of Optional Practical Training was to give foreign students extra tools to help their home countries when they returned but today it is more often used by foreign students as a bridge to stay in the U.S., and by employers to get around the H-1B cap.<span style="padding-left: 30px"></span>There are approximately 568,000 F-1 students in the U.S. in addition to 98,000 in 12-month OPT programs and 30,000 in 29-month OPT programs. Giving employers incentive to hire from this giant pool of workers undermines the job opportunities for American STEM workers.<span style="padding-left: 30px"></span>OPTs are sought after by employers because they tend to be younger (cheaper) than their American competitors. Employers save 7.65 percent when they hire foreign students instead of US workers because they don't pay FICA or Medicare taxes under the OPT program. OPT workers often hold jobs in the $60-$90,000 a year range, but they cost Social Security about $1 billion dollars a year.Senator Charles Grassley of Iowa (in a letter to President Obama):<span style="padding-left: 30px"></span>"By increasing the total amount of time a foreign student may work in OPT after each degree to 3 years - the same amount of time that an H-1B visa would be valid - there is little doubt that the Administration has administratively established a de facto shadow H-1B program, in violation of Congressional intent."<span style="padding-left: 30px"></span>the proposed regulations are "irresponsible and dangerous considering the Government Accountability Office (GAO) report issued in March 2014 finding that the program was full of inefficiencies, susceptible to fraud, and that the Department was not adequately overseeing it."<span style="padding-left: 30px"></span>"The report also found a major national security problem in that the Department does not know where tens of thousands of foreign students are living and working in the country. The GAO said that 'ICE cannot fully ensure foreign students working under optional practical training are maintaining their legal status in the United States.'"John Miano, attorney representing tech workers:<span style="padding-left: 30px"></span>the proposed rule effectively "requires employers and universities to engage in unlawful immigration status discrimination."Richard Trumpka, President of the AFL-CIO:<span style="padding-left: 30px"></span>"expanding de facto guest worker programs like Optional Practical Training (OPT) - through which employers hire more than 120,000 young college graduates per year who hold F-1 visas - but do not even guarantee that those foreign graduates are paid the minimum wage, let alone the prevailing wage, chase Americans out of computer science and creates a self-fulfilling 'shortage' as Americans respond to a relatively better market as engineers in other fields."David North, formerly of the U.S. Labor Department:<span style="padding-left: 30px"></span>"U.S. employers are given a substantial bonus for hiring an alien college grad rather than an American college grad with the same skills and the same salary...it can be above $10,000."<span style="padding-left: 30px"></span>"DHS, by defining a recent college grad as a student, takes both the worker and the employer out from under payroll taxes -- thus penalizing the Social Security and Medicare trust funds directly, and our elders indirectly."Ron Hira of Howard University: <span style="padding-left: 30px"></span>"It is pure fiction that someone with a master's degree in electrical engineering needs an additional three years to work as an intern to be a productive professional. Instead, the duration seems to come out of thin air, based purely on what the political types in the Obama White House believe that they can get through without facing significant opposition."Daniel Costa, of the Economic Policy Institute:<span style="padding-left: 30px"></span>the worker protections included in the new rule "are so vague and deferential to employers that they will be virtually unenforceable in practice in any meaningful way."Ian Smith of the Immigration Reform Law Institute:<span style="padding-left: 30px"></span>DHS "is neglecting its duty under federal guidance to discuss crucial economic considerations, such as how many OPT workers will be hired instead of American workers; how many STEM grads have given up finding work in the STEM field; how the new rule will affect tech-worker wages and American STEM-grad employment."<span style="padding-left: 30px"></span>"Not only will this artificially expand the domestic labor pool by hundreds of thousands, but 100 percent of the new recruits will be young and therefore cheap, and almost guaranteed to neither unionize nor get poached from competitors (because their 'student' visas will be tied to their employers)."This proposed change is a disaster for American workers and for national security.
I strongly support the extension of the OPT for eligible F1 students. These students are highly trained, tax paying, law abiding individuals who add value to American companies and play a strong role in developing the economy of the United States. It would be counter productive for the US to train and educate these students and force them out of the country so that they go back to their countries and develop the economies out there. In a globalized economy, it is in any country's best interest to attract highly skilled individuals and the US will only benefit if they allow these students to stay in the US.
If we do not encourage foreign STEM workers in the US, they are not just going to disappear. The US corporations will simply outsource the jobs to foreign locations. So why not keep these talented people here and help create more jobs. Data invariably has shown that these workers help create a more jobs and even new companies.
I think it is very piratical and reasonable for F-1 STEM extesion. Comparing with previous one, it is quite improved.Thank you for the efforts!Best,Peng
The OPT STEM extension is a boon for the international students who come to USA to pursue higher studies and make their career in the relevant fields. It does not give them the right or an open door to take on the jobs of the US citizens. Instead, it gives them an opportunity to utilize their skills and show their talent, in turn contributing to the US economy. OPT STEM extension does not affect the eligibility of a person, be it US citizen or international, for a job opportunity available in the market. If a student is capable enough, skilled, experienced, and ready to learn and take on new challenges, he/she will be selected for the role he/she deserves. Since its very difficult for any international student to settle down in the US, due to the immigration rules, the OPT STEM extension is a big help for them to live and prosper in the world's most amazing and modern country. Hence, OPT STEM extension rule should be valid and not terminated.
The OPT STEM extension is a boon for the international students who come to USA to pursue higher studies and make their career in the relevant fields. It does not give them the right or an open door to take on the jobs of the US citizens. Instead, it gives them an opportunity to utilize their skills and show their talent, in turn contributing to the US economy. OPT STEM extension does not affect the eligibility of a person, be it US citizen or international, for a job opportunity available in the market. If a student is capable enough, skilled, experienced, and ready to learn and take on new challenges, he/she will be selected for the role he/she deserves. Since its very difficult for any international student to settle down in the US, due to the immigration rules, the OPT STEM extension is a big help for them to live and prosper in the world's most amazing and modern country. Hence, OPT STEM extension rule should be valid and not terminated.
It is NEVER a good idea to hire a foreign student over an Amarican student if they have the same qualifications and the same education for the job.
First, I would like to express my gratitude to DHS for publishing proposed rulemaking for STEM OPT extension in timely manner. OPT Extension (24-month) along with 12-month OPT will help international STEM students significantly because academic, private or public organizations/companies require both academic knowledge and practical experience.Please add Geography (CIP code 45.0701) in the STEM list. A paper was published in a peer reviewed journal why geography should be included as STEM (doi:10.5539/jgg.v7n1p27): http://ccsenet.org/journal/index.php/jgg/article/view/43858/24468Also, please make "exit and re-entry" easy for international students. Initial OPT was 12 months and travelling outside of U.S. was no big deal for that periods. However, now students need to travel home and come back in 36-month period (OPT 12 month and STEM extension 24 month). Please make visa easy for OPT students.Thanks DHS again.
Economy will benefit from the policy since STEM graduates who have a high level education and techniques can stay and contribute to the industries where such skills and labors are needed.
It is so important for F1 student to finish the opt with extensions, which can substantially benefit U.S. economy.
I don't understand all the intricacies of this issue. I oppose sending all of our work overseas for two reasons: we have people here who need jobs and the labor force in foreign countries is inhumanely. We need to become self-sufficient and have our products sold in other countries. We have millions on welfare. Why not help out businesses by having the welfare people earning their money? A welfare worker could continue to receive welfare while working six months at a company. At that point, the company can assume the role as employer and the person could receive more than if they were still on welfare. I have a nephew who did a stupid thing while of his bipolar meds. He has served his term and been out for several years. No one will hire him. How about our government relieving taxes on businesses that while hire ex-cons? There are so many ways we can make jobs...government and private in concert together?
I support this proposal very much. Extend OPT period by 24 months(STEM OPT extension) is really helpful.
I hardily disagree with the expansion of the OPT program. Here we go again shoveling jobs out of reach for American workers and providing a "leg up"  for foreigners. The greed of employers looking for a way to pay cheaper salaries to these foreign workers disregards the need for our American workers to find jobs. I'm totally against the increased expansion of OPT.  America first and then consideration can be given to foreign workers if they are still needed. Employers do not need a program that allows them to set wages and instrumentally cheats Social Security out of much needed funding.
I fully support the decision to expand the OPT STEM extension for F1 students from 17 months to 24 months. I believe that this is a great step towards improving the training opportunities for F1 students. Having completed their education at reputed schools, these students will be a great asset to the workplace and will help create healthy competitiveness, and will contribute in a positive way to the country. It is very important for these students to be able to have training opportunities without having to constantly keep thinking about their immigrant status, and I think this is a great step in that direction.
After reading this proposed rule I find that it is formally making the US government pay incentives to US Technical companies to hire foreign students over US employees and extending the amount of time a foreign student can stay on their VISA.As a US citizen and graduate Engineer. I have enjoyed a very successful career from my education. The US has been very good to me and must be defended against the immigration of foreign technical workers at lower wages.Instead of incentives we need to impose fines for hiring a foreign worker over a US citizen. You need to be canceling the OPT program in its entirety.
I really appreciate the extension of another 7 months of OPT in the proposed system but the MTP(mentoring and training program) is the main drawback in the proposed system for students because top companies(especially, some of the fortune 500 companies) are already not showing interest in hiring F-1 students because of the requirement for the sponsorship. With this new rule, they might move a step backward in hiring F-1 students and even continuing them in the current positions they are working as it requires manager/lead/tech-help person to put some extra time for these employees to follow the process, setup the goals which may not be their interest. I completely understand the benefit of MTP for an F-1 student which helps the student to gain knowledge in their related field and keep them up to the speed but like I explained above it takes away the opportunity to get into a reputed well established organizations. So I sincerely request DHS to remove the MTP rule.Thanks!
The OPT program forces AMERICAN WORKERS out of jobs and allows ALIENS to fill these positions and in many cases the AMERICAN WORKER MUST TRAIN THE ALIEN WHO IS REPLACING HIM. The OPT program needs to be cut back in order to allow AMERICAN WORKERS the chance for these jobs. It also needs to be better managed so as to eliminate abuse, which is now widespread.
This whole underhanded and very costly spending on the welfare and benefits of illegal aliens is more than troubling.   At a time when SSA is  under attack and No COLA to help our elder citizens, The president wants to keep adding to the ever growing purse Scofflaw, criminal trespassers.  Can it be legal to siphon off taxpayers funds to aid and abet criminals. Can anyman ; without even aid of a referendum give across the board amnesty to millions of unknown foreign intruders. Too many clandestine plans that rearrange treason to become brotherhood. We all know this is rotten but what is our jolly ,holier than thou  Congress doing about it.
In my opinion, Improving and Expanding Training Opportunities for F-1 Nonimmigrant Students with STEM Degrees and Cap-Gap Relief for All Eligible F-1 Students (the Proposed Rule), is beneficial to the economy and competitiveness of United States in various fields such as high technology, IT, R&amp;D, and finance, etc.First of all, applicable F-1 students earn their Bachelors, Masters and Doctoral degree in STEM-related fields in the United States. Their knowledge and experience can make great contribution to US-based companies and organizations, and thus US economy. If these graduates cannot get work authorization in US, they are forced to return to their home countries and work for other companies competing with US companies. For example, China has been a great rivalry to US in all aspects, and each year, there are tens of thousands of STEM students graduated from top-tier universities in US. If they are forced to return to China, they will work for Chinese companies, which compete with US companies in the market. With a labor force with best higher education in the world, Chinas innovation and competitiveness will rise dramatically in the near future. To stop this trend, The US government should try its best to keep these graduates to stay and work in this country so that they can use their knowledge and ability to profit US companies and organizations.Second, the Optional Practical Training program, is very attractive to future foreign students. Other countries, especially European countries, does not offer work authorization to students of this scale. Thus, this is a major reason that foreign students choose this country. Foreign students pay much higher tuitions compared to local students, which becomes a significant source of funding for universities. With more funding, US universities can attract the best researchers and education professionals to continue to provide world-leading education that this country enjoys at present. In addition, foreign students contribute to US economy in many aspects such as housing, consumer products, food, auto, etc. By living and studying in this country for several years, their impact to US economy is not ineligible. Thus, the US government should make rules to attract more foreign students to study in this country, and the Proposed Rule is a strong movement towards this target.Third, many high tech companies hire a lot of foreign students every year because there are not enough domestic STEM graduates or professionals. These companies pay the same or even more compensation to attract foreign students to join. If these employees cannot obtain work authorization, companies have to move these positions overseas. If so, taxation in US will decrease. Someone may argue that if the Proposed Rule is vetoed, these jobs will go to domestic labors. This is not true. Labor market for high tech field is an international, fully competitive market. STEM graduates and domestic labors compete in the same labor market, receive the same level of compensation and work in the same job positions. A company hires STEM graduates over domestic labor simply because STEM graduates outperform.In summary, the Proposed Rule is beneficial to US economy and competitiveness, US-based companies, and US higher education. Thus it should be passed without delay.
PUT AMERICAN WORKERS 1ST, NO INCENTIVES TO COMPANIES TO HIRE FOREIGN STUDENTS OR FOREIGN WORKERS. PUT THE AMERICAN WORKER 1ST.
If the proposed OPT Extension is increased to 36 months, it would attract more international students to come and study in US Universities. This would help both US universities and US employers to remain competitive in the global market.
Support the proposal very much.Since international students are quite important for industry, extending opt will help us economy a lot, especially manufacturing industry, which is the fundamental of a country.More talented young people can contribute to the industry.
This new rule is essential for a large number of industries in United States such as IT and Finance. STEM students are the most needed type of international students on the job market of US. This new rule increased the chance of getting working VISA for STEM students and make it possible for qualified students to stay longer in US. Universities have spend great amount of  time and money to train Ph.D. and M.S. students in STEM fields. It is going to be a large waste if these students are not able to stay here simply because they are not lucky enough to get their working VISA.
Dear Chief Westerlund:As an international student in the United States, I pursued a STEM degree and graduated in 2014 with a master degree in the field of technology innovation. I felt a lot of pressure when I heard the news about the overruling of stem extension as  result of a lawsuit. It's disappointing for me because I already landed a ideal job and my company is willing to sponsor H1B but if the STEM extension is vacant next February I have to leave U.S. which I enjoy working in a lot. My company has invested many resources in me already so if they have to let me go it will be a loss for both my company and I. Thankfully, DHS shares my feeling.I was very excited to see the proposed rule for reinstituting the 2008 STEM OPT extension, cap gap relief, and especially an expansion and improvement of the previous rule. I strongly support this new rule as it will not only let me keep working in this country but also have a better chance to get the H1B visa since I will be able to apply for H1B twice during the 24 month extension. The OPT STEM Extension Should be Retained for the Benefit of STEM Graduates.The proposal to reinstitute the STEM extension will provide valuable hands-on, educational experience in which STEM graduates gain real-world immersion into a chosen industry. This experiential learning will allow me to integrate knowledge and theory learned in the classroom with practical application and skills development in a professional setting. STEM graduates like me should be given more opportunity to gain valuable applied experience and make connections in professional fields they are considering for career paths. The additional OPT time will provide me with more broad exposure to industries and organizations to aid in personally developing and exploring career possibilities as well as creating a professional network. These benefits also will encourage future international students to join STEM programs in the U.S. and allow U.S. companies to remain competitive globally.The OPT STEM Extension Should be Retained for the Benefit of STEM Employers. Providing more OPT opportunities to STEM graduates will assist U.S. companies in the application of the latest strategies and techniques in the field. Expanding opportunities for STEM graduates benefits employers in high-tech industries by helping them to maintain connections with colleges and increase visibility on campus. This aids to promote community involvement and creates awareness of the field for future students and future employees. In addition, expanding practical training opportunities for international students will enhance U.S. companies by providing novel perspectives, fresh ideas, new processes, and specialized skill sets to augment the abilities of staff employees. Finally, STEM students will allow employers the opportunity to accomplish bigger projects, achieve more innovation, and develop new products and technology, all of which will further fuel the U.S. economy.The Duration of the STEM Extension Should be 24 Months. In order to be a meaningful learning experience, a 24-month extension combined with the initial 12 month OPT period is the appropriate duration to allow me to meet my planned learning goals and allow for active reflection on I am accomplishing throughout the experience. Students with up to 36 months of practical training can be assigned more challenging projects that better complement academic programs and career interests. The 24 month OPT can also allow me to file H1B visa twice to increase the chance to get the lottery. Cap-Gap Relief is an Important Part of the 2008 Rule and Should be Retained. Given that the H-1B visa program is a common mechanism for F-1 students to transition to the U.S. work environment, cap-gap relief is essential to avoid gaps in work authorization between the April filing window and the October start date of the H-1B visa.I strongly suggest the final rule will grant the students who are already approved for the 17-month extension additional 7-month extension which will help them have a better chance of obtaining H1B visa since most likely they will get one more chance to apply for H1B. This will also minimize the impact on the current 17-month extension granted students as well as the pending applications. I strongly suggest and hope this final rule would grant the additional 7-month extension to the students currently under 17-month extension. With this letter, I urge you to support the U.S. economy by implementing this new rule by February 12, 2016. Thank you for your consideration, time, and support in this matter.Sincerely,Linwei
Please keep the opt period of at least 24 months for engineering students.
This is a good move to retain talent in US. This will boost the US economy.
Without the Extension, US will lose hundreds of thousand high tech talent that support the high tech industry. Please approve the extension and be supportive to STEM.
In some schools MIS is considered as a STEM course and in other schools as non STEM course (MBA course). I request to consider the consider major degrees which are actually a STEM course but doesn't fall it in. There are so many international students who wants to perceive dreams and come to US to explore their knowledge in specific majors. With in the US if a single major MIS falls in different categories from school to school leaves student in an awful situation. I would request you to consider these major degrees as well in STEM.
Cancellation of OPT extension will cause seriously negative effect on American economic.
This type of initiative is at the core of failing our students and citizens seeking meaningful employment
I am writing in opposition to this whole thing. Once again trying to circumvent the congress and get away with giving jobs to people who have no business getting jobs in this country! These students should have to leave just like they agreed too! This OPT rule is a bunch of stuff also!Send these students back to the countries that they came from and stop giving our jobs to non immigrant students!
I support for extending STEM OPT from 17 months to 24 months and capgap relief.
i fully support the extension of stem opt from 17 months to 24 months as it will help to give much practical experience to students and also increase the economy and competitiveness of the nation
This rule is very important.International Students into STEM disciplines, come to U.S to get into the Research and Development activities here. US has been the epicenter of many new technologies in the past and also in future.This diverse atmosphere helps nurture a strong workforce.Also, the students learn a lot which help them broaden their horizon.The Post-graduation OPT period curtails this freedom.Extending it will provide relief to a lot of students who can have a longer time to undergo training.
The OPT is a total fraud against the American citizens. Where as:OPT denied American workers more than 430,000 jobs during the years 2009-2013; andOPT removed $4 billion from the Social Security and Medicare trust funds.When these foreign 'workers' have completed the program they are suppose to return to their home country and that is Not the case since these trained workers have already sponged Billions of dollars thru this program they Do Not return to their home country But start in bottom rung jobs not at a beginning salary But at the $60-90 K yearly range.This is a disgrace to the American designed system of hiring and it Must stop.
The OPT is a total fraud against the American citizens. Where as:OPT denied American workers more than 430,000 jobs during the years 2009-2013; andOPT removed $4 billion from the Social Security and Medicare trust funds.When these foreign 'workers' have completed the program they are suppose to return to their home country and that is Not the case since these trained workers have already sponged Billions of dollars thru this program they Do Not return to their home country But start in bottom rung jobs not at a beginning salary But at the $60-90 K yearly range.This is a disgrace to the American designed system of hiring and it Must stop.
Stem opt of 24 months is better than for 17 months opt
The OPT extension is beneficial for United States, it's leading a positive effect on the IT, Engineering field in US industry, I strongly support this extension.
Foreign students need more opportunities to improve themselves. We expect not only studying USA (although with high expense), but also having opportunities to match our skills with practical work.
The rule proposed above would allow students to put their knowledge into practice for an extended time period. The lengthened OPT extension for STEM programs would allow graduates sufficient time to build a strong foundation in their careers. The formal mentoring or training plan proposed would ensure that all employers strategically train and assign responsibilities to allow these graduates to meet the current market demands in business and technology. The extension of the operiod of unemployment during OPT from 30 to 60 during the OPT extension period would provide relief to students who are in search for employment or are in transition between two employers. In a nutshell, this is a great initiative from the Department of Homeland Security to encourage students to pursue education and career training within the United States of America and gives a wonderful boost to this STEM economy.
I strongly agree with the rule.It can benefit both students and high tech companies. I hope this can be approved.
To The Department of Homeland Security:  Your Department name is an oxymoron in that you do not help American Citizens, you are helping foreign students.  Members of my family were not allowed to go to the college of their choice, not because of their grades, but because of what the Department of 'Homeland' Security has done, and is doing.  Most Americans are very aware that this Administration is following the"Alinsky" model of "C-H-A-O-S," which he originally dedicated to Lucifer, "The first one to turn against GOD".  You may not personally be aware of this dedication to Lucifer, (they have since removed the dedication with the newer printing of Alinsky's Rules for Revolution) but it is true. This is the model that this Administration wants used in every area of government.    Please do not go forward with this proposal - we, the Taxpaying Americans, are barely hanging on out here.  At least give our American children first consideration.I appreciate your consideration.
We have way too many AMERICANS out of work !!!   stop bringing more foreigners in !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
The first duty of the elected officials and the employees of this government is to protect the interests of the people of this country. This includes that our citizens are given the first opportunity at all jobs. The mere idea of bringing in people from out of this country that or have been filled with Americans is obscene. The only ones who profit from this are the big businesses that use this to lower their expenses. If they can't find the talent here then they should look to sponsor educational programs to train our people. This act is a gift to the corporations and helps aggravate the economic woes we are already suffering.
We need to focus on american workers employment before we even begin to worry about foreigners, there are enough under-employed and unemployed to see to first!
'OPTs are sought after by employers because they tend to be younger (cheaper) than their American competitors. Employers save 7.65 percent when they hire foreign students instead of US workers because they don't pay FICA or Medicare taxes under the OPT program. OPT workers often hold jobs in the $60-$90,000 a year range, but they cost Social Security about $1 billion dollars a year.'Explain to me how replacing U.S. workers with foreign labor is BEST for the U.S. and why the Federal Government is obviously more for the foreigner than for the U.S. citizen/worker?When Social Security is being harmed by these foreigners and money is desperately needed to fund the program, why implement more foreigners to rape the SS program to the tune of a billion dollars a year?When is the Federal Government going to put the U.S. citizen/worker/taxpayer first?  Our elderly need their SS and they need it now!!!  Our taxpayers provide this support....foreign workers obviously don't!
Such a good news! The new rule not only allows international students work longer period in the field of their expertise, but contribute to the field as well. Not to mention all the tax they contribute every pay check!
The proposed rule from the Department of Homeland Security to expand the Optional Practical Training program would be a detriment to American tech workers, especially recent college graduates. The program would allow U.S. companies to hire foreign citizens who have been pursuing a degree for at least nine months in the U.S., artificially expanding the pool of available workers for jobs particularly in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics fields. As a result, this would put downward pressure on wages for all tech workers. Furthermore, the program actually incentivizes employers to hire foreign students because they don't have to pay the employer portion of payroll taxes or a prevailing wage. With recent college graduates struggling to find work, this is not the time to provide companies with an incentive to hire foreign citizens over U.S. citizens.
My company (Cvent) regularly hires foreign nationals for technology positions and we are very much in support of the proposed new rule.  First, I want to clearly state that our immigration policy encourages us to hire US citizens unless none are available to fulfill the roles we need to fill.  In other words, we do not have a preference for hiring foreign nationals over US citizens, we simply cannot find enough qualified US citizens with the necessary skills to fuel our company's growth.We have an active college intern program and like to hire interns when they finish school as we feel that it's a good way to partner with the academic community and enrich our own applicant pool.  If the government does not raise the cap on H-1B visas, it is imperative that we extend the length of the STEM program.  If we don't take any action, we risk losing talented employees simply because they cannot find a path to work authorization within the parameters of the existing laws.  Worse, we've had several cases where employees' jobs have been disrupted due to the expiration of their STEM when they weren't picked in the lottery.  We have had two such cases this year where employees were out of work for weeks at a time, while they waited to enter a master's program and come back to work for us under the CPT program.  These situations take a toll on the employee and on our company as we're forced to plan around these unanticipated staffing changes.  If the STEM program extended to 24 months, they would have yet another opportunity to compete for an H-1B in the lottery.  I cannot emphasize enough how incredibly disruptive these breaks in employment are to all concerned.  There has to be a better way.The only other way to abate this crisis is to invest in skill training for American citizens so that we can more easily find qualified applicants on home soil.  Cvent supports these initiatives too and we actively partner with local schools and vocational training programs.  But our company is growing too fast for this talent pool to keep up.  In the space of 2 years, we have more than doubled in size and created many, many new jobs for US citizens and foreign nationals alike.  Provided that we can continue to find the talent we need, we only anticipate that our growth will continue.
I totally agree with the decision of extending opt period to 24 months from 17. Eagerly looking foward to its approval.
stem degrees and cap-gap relief?what is wrong with you people? as long as one single american cannot find a job, why should we allow any immigration at all?
I strongly support the new OPT extension. I know a lot of talented people currently under OPT extension or will be using it soon. The increasingly limited quota for H1B makes this even more important to retain these young talents. It will be really hard to find supplements if they are forced to leave the states.
America has an abundance of unemployed workers. We don't need to import more workers for tech jobs.
Please explain WHY are U.S. STUDENTS ARE EXCLUDED FROM THIS PRIVILEGED PROGRAMA. Purpose of the Regulatory ActionThis proposed rule is open to literally every foreign person in the world regardless of the ability to succeed at a U.S. school thus, the regulation does not seek bright students. The F1 nonimmigrant classification is available to certain academic students seeking temporary admission to the United States as full-time students at an established college, university, seminary, conservatory, academic high school, elementary school, or other academic institution or in an accredited language training program. In short, every and any school is a qualifying school. Thus, by definition, any foreigner who wants to come to the U.S. to attend elementary school qualifies under this regulation. The 911 terrorist would have qualified under this broad definition.OPT is a form of temporary employment lasting 48 months, which is nobody's definition of temporary. Since the whole college experience begins and ends in 48 months, then the OPT program is a school unto itself 48 months is the course of study. A student can apply to engage in OPT during their academic program, known as pre-completion OPT, As admitted in this Regulation and in the Immigration Code this regulation assists the foreign student to change status to H1B thus eligible to replace a qualified US worker WITHOUT A DEGREE OR EXPERIENCE. or after completing the academic program, known as post-completion OPT. As admitted in the first sentence OPT is a form of employment. Clearly, the regulation is NOT meant for educational purposes but is in the end an employment program for and only for foreign students.The Regulations fail to protect U.S. workers because the Regulations fail to gage the wages of U.S. workers. Instead, the Regulations help ONLY the imported foreign students in gauging compliance, employers would be required to provide DHS with student compensation information, which would better situate the agency to monitor whether STEM OPT students are being compensated fairly.If the DHS cared to protect the U.S. worker, then, the employer would have to report on the actual wages paid to its U.S. employees and to justify any reduction in the wage scale or an adverse employment action against any U.S. EMPLOYEE. That would protect the U.S. worker.
Let the OPTers go home to their own countries to train. American jobs for Americans! Enough foreign invaders taking American jobs.
This is all about Big Business wanting Cheap Labor, and not about helping Foreign Students.  USA Students need work and job training, but that doesn't matter to the Obama Administration.  Our children, grandchildren, and progeny are just supposed to step aside and let the foreigners invade American Jobs and Training, which should be given to American Citizens First and Foremost.
Politicians want nothing more than a tax break for the companies they are invested in. We know Congress and the White House are looking after their own interest and paying their incurred "debts". We vote them out and the next bunch is just as bad and it doesn't matter the political party. Will just ONE in Congress have the conscience to stand against the destruction of our country and the AMERICAN PEOPLE? I doubt it, you are all in it together.
I thank DHS for coming up with the improved STEM rule which would attract many research scholars in the field of Science,Technology Engineering  and Math across the globe to US . Good to see  DHS realizing and categorizing the STEM OPT rule as economically significant rule for United States rather than  an immigration benefit . This would give enough time and opportunity  for students to gain the practical knowledge in their respective fields and help United States to achieve their economic goals. I once again thank all personalities who helped DHS to come up with this rule and would love to see it get implemented as soon as possible.
We American Citizens are the TRUE taxpayers and we are shouldering the financialresponsibilities of our entire country.However, we are being sold down the drain and our jobs are being stolen and givento ILLEGALS and Muslim Jihadist "Refugees" while we are being forced to TRAINthem to do the jobs we are being forced out of.This is WRONG, WRONG, WRONG!IF THIS DOES NOT GET FIXED NOW, you are asking for a REVOLUTION in America.You cannot support America on the backs of ILLEGALS and Muslim Jihadist "Refugees"!
Allowing STEM students to work for longer in the US than any other graduate is not justified in any case. Increasing STEP OPT even further is discouraging the international students with other majors to participate in US degree program. Expanding the OPT for STEM graduates allows the students to apply for H-1 visa up to 3-4 times post study whereas the H-1 cap is same which decreases the possibility of other students to get H-1 visa even further. I hope DHS will look into this matter and come up with a solution which does not discourage international students with other majors to pursue degree in US.
I believe the OPT extension is not in the interest of American students who graduate. Americans who complete the challenge of college need to have employment on the horizon, and businesses have the lure of hiring foreign students "temporarily" for a lower wage, and not pay social security for the foreign worker, thereby denying the social security program funds.  I also believe that hiring foreign graduates opens the door for a security weakness.  These students have a loyalty to their home country, and despite being vetted or separated from classified projects and information, they are still exposed to it and can collect a wide scope of information about the STEM business, its projects, and its workers. In the interest of security, these foreign graduates should not be hired on.
I strongly SUPPORT the OPT-extension for the following reasons: 1. Hiring international students does not mean stealing jobs from Americans. I personally did not see ANY American students with STEM degrees and decent GPAs get unemployed. Stop hiring international students will not help those who do not study hard and have no talents in certain fields. It will only cause an economic decline in general and slowdown the technology development of America because a huge amount of vacancies would be left to people who do not qualify them.2. If intelligent International students with STEM degrees were allow to work more 16 more months, they would definitely contribute greatly more to the American economics as well as the technology development. 16 months more employment benefits both the employers and the employees hugely. International students got the best education from American colleges. It is their duty to contribute to the American economics as return.3. After calculation, it turns out that out of all potential international employees, only 19% of them could stay and get a working VISA from the lottery. Most of them will eventually go to their home country and work there, leaving a lot of vacancies for newly graduated students.
I support the rule , this boosts is economy
Strongly support! STEM students contribute a lot. Big companies need them!
As an international student and a potential employer of U.S, I believe that this will not only allow current education system to produce more able employee but also employee with the experience to make a difference in today's world.
What's wrong with people saying that this rule will take away jobs from citizen with STEM degrees. I think it will create more and more jobs for everyone. Its great step towards improving this rule. As a citizen I support this rule. I hope everyone will support this rule
This is an overt action by obama to subvert the will and laws of the people of the USA. How much longer will we allow this?Act now before he sets our country on fire.
As far as I know, United States have been the TOP of the world in the past century. The reason why it like this is that United States accepts the talents all over the world. If you look back to world war 2.  So many Jewish scientists are accepted by US. which helps the technology grows really fast. So many generals who originally come from Europe help US win the war. The OPT can only be given to the people who has a degree in US which means they are really well educated. If we let them go, other countries will be really happy since they can get the talents without paying much. But they can grow faster and faster. I don't think in that situation US will keep competitive in the world.  US may becomes more and more like some European countries which have wonderful benefits but lazy people. So it is the international students make United States much different. Why can't we keep them to make the country better. If we want to know who take the opportunity for local Americans in technology. You can see that Indian ICC get half of the H1b each year. And they can move Indian people without having the degree in US. I don't think they are qualified enough. So I wish we could think about this again and give the STEM people more opportunity to stay here. and contribute to the economy of US
I'm a supporter of this rule. For yeas America has leaded the world as one of the most innovative countries in the world. America needs to keep its leading position in STEM areas by attracting the most intelligent people from all over the world working for her.Those students who graduate from American universities are eager to implement what they've learned from school and make a real impact on the economy. They are not stealing jobs. They are making their own contributions to this country and creating more jobs by innovation.It would be more than stupid kicking these people away back to their home countries right after their graduation. This is in fact, against the very spirit of what makes this country a great one.
I strongly support to extend STEM opt from 17 to 24 months. More cheaper labor will make the USA be global no.1. The stem jobs mostly are coding jobs, and Americans do not want to have these kind of jobs.
I strongly support the proposal to extend F-1 nonimmigrant student optional practical training (OPT) time to 24 months for existing STEM OPT students also.
I think 36 month is better than 24 month.
I find it unbelievable that our own government would hire foreign students over our American students. My son has been working very, very hard towards his doctoral degree and incurring interest on student loans along the way. Now, I hear THIS!!!!!SHAME ON YOU!!!!!!!
I am already watching my children's future being flushed down the toilet and destroyed. I have watched over the last near 7 years as the standard of living has purposefully been lowered by an out of control President, Obama. I have watched as law-abiding, tax-paying Americans are suffering needlessly as that standard of living lowers more and more, as quality jobs based on merit and birthright are being stripped away, shipped into foreign countries, and given to foreign invaders-- And even worse, those same Americans are being forced to foot the bill for their foreign replacements.Americans MUST first in America. Stop training foreigners and giving American jobs to foreigners. Stop selling out America to foreigners. Stop it! These atrocious rules by Obama and DHS must be stopped, before the country is entirely lost.The Department of Homeland Security's proposed rule to expand the Optional Practical Training program amounts to corporate welfare. The proposed rule would extend the amount of time a foreign student can work in the United States from one year to three years. It artificially expands the pool of available workers, allowing employers to depress wages and avoid paying their share of payroll taxes by hiring foreign workers instead of American workers. This rule lines the pockets of greedy business owners at the expense of American workers.Obama said he would fundamentally change America, and he has done so, turning a once great country into a Banana Republic with no rule-of-law, favors to his friends and pet political groups, a destroyed economy, no job growth, aiding and abetting the invasion of our country by foreigners, many who hate America, and gouging, abusing and destroying the middle class with unending rules and regulations and Executive Orders designed to do such.
this is great! thank you. please make stem opt 24 months.
Being able to work for a company in the US for a longer period of time not only benefits the employee but also is beneficial for the company itself. If the STEM extension period is extended by 24 months then the foreign employee will have total 3 years of experience with a company and eventually can become valuable enough to contribute to national economy. I personally appreciate the proposal to extend the STEM extension by 24 months and looking forward to this rule be in effect soon.
I fully support it because this will attract more talents to USA and help the education industry.
I strongly support 24 months opt period as all we are students deserve that.If that new rule implement it will be useful to many of the lakhs of pupil.
This is terrible please don't do it
I strongly second this proposed STEM extension, and hope that it is implemented soon. We may be international students, but we contribute a lot to the US economy. Even as students we work on commercial projects as researchers. International students make up a big part of american universities, paying out-of-state tuition that greatly benefits the economy. If this extension is not implemented, bright international students will either return to their native countries or go elsewhere for higher education which will only diminish America's technological edge over the rest of the world. For all the efforts and resources we put in, it is imperative that this proposed 24 month extension rule be implemented immediately.
